risk factors 16 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are 16 table of contents immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income and/or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity event. due to the overall weakening of the economic environment from 2008, venture capital financing activity, as well as m&amp;as and ipos - activities on which venture capital firms rely to exit investments to realize returns --- slowed in a meaningful manner. while there has been some improvement in overall economic conditions since then, particularly during the past few years, if economic conditions worsen or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down even further, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. venture capital firms may continue to provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. in our portfolios of corporate technology and other large corporate clients, some of our loans may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity. we have been continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients, as well as to make larger loans. these larger loans include loans equal to or greater than $20 million to a single client, which has over time represented an increasingly larger proportion of our total loan portfolio. additionally, in recent periods, we have increased our efforts to make sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings that are typically sponsored by our private equity clients. these buyout loans tend to be larger in size, many of which individually are greater than $20 million. increasing our loan commitments, especially larger loans, could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. we may also enter into financing arrangements with our clients, the repayment of which may be dependent on third parties' financial condition or ability to meet their payment obligations. for example, we enter into factoring arrangements which are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. or, we make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks, or we enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us. in our portfolio of venture capital and private equity firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. in recent periods, we have increased our efforts to make these capital call lines of credit. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients' inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. we also lend primarily to venture capital/private equity professionals through our private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. we also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our svb wine group. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather or other natural conditions) and overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment). see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations --- consolidated financial condition under item 7 of part ii of this report. based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. 17 table of contents our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective venture capital/private equity firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our venture capital/private equity fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management's estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we offer interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, regulatory requirements (such as the repeal of the interest payment restrictions under regulation q), and a change over time in the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in market interest rates, such as the federal funds rate, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. sustained low levels of market interest rates could continue to place downward pressure on our net income levels. unexpected or further interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our 18 table of contents control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected, as well as unexpected, financial obligations and requirements. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary, and periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. client deposits are the primary source of liquidity for the bank. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity supplements our liquidity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and, finally, through unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the fed funds market. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any failure to manage our liquidity effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness and business, or our overall reputation. equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity and m&amp;a markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science industries. we also make investments through svb financial or our svb capital family of funds primarily in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from the disposition of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including investor demand for ipos, levels of m&amp;a activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell, and the perceived and actual performance and future value of portfolio companies. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be less than the then-current recorded fair market value. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on the underlying value of the issuing companies, which may also vary materially from period to period. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our 19 table of contents clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of available equity for such awards is subject to stockholder approval. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse affect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber attacks. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, disrupt our business, affect our ability to grow our online services or other businesses, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions, or cause damage to our reputation. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 table of contents we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed, and are continually developing, a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services and for the company to operate effectively, we have developed, purchased and licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions, or damage to our reputation. for example, we are in the process of enhancing our core banking system, as well as implementing and enhancing other systems to support specific business units, including our international operations. we may also outsource certain operational and other functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies. if we do not implement our systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. there is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as india, china, israel, and the united kingdom, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants' reports, with respect to the business and financial 21 table of contents condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the fasb or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. we face risks associated with international operations. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. in 2012, we opened a banking branch in the united kingdom, as well as a joint venture bank in china. we also have offices in india and israel. we plan to expand our operations in our current international markets. we may also expand our business beyond those markets. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations, risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners and other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, cultural differences, political and economic risks, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, and other foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ), and the california department of financial institutions, as well as the international regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise adversely affect the activities in 22 table of contents which we may engage, may affect our ability to expand our business over time, may result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. furthermore, the bank for international settlement's basel committee on banking supervision has adopted new capital, leverage and liquidity guidelines under the basel accord and the federal reserve board has proposed new capital requirements on banks and bank holding companies, all of which may have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those required by current law and the dodd-frank act. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see generally business - supervision and regulation under item 1 of part i of this report. if we were to violate international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, the nasdaq stock market, finra, and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our subsidiary, svb securities. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the bank's financial needs and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. svb financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings (if any), and dividends, should svb financial elect to pay any, as well as share repurchases. various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. strategic/reputation/other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our business while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated by these general industry niches: technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine. our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications and electronics), software and related services, and clean technology. our life science clients are concentrated in the medical devices and biotechnology sectors. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage or mid-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. in addition, we are continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and/or to make larger loans, which may increase our concentration risk. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. 23 table of contents decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to emerging stage to mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of ipo's or m&amp;a activity of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science and venture capital/private equity industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. because our business and strategy are largely based on this venture capital/private equity financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including unfavorable economic conditions and adverse trends in investment or fundraising levels, may have a materially adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. we compete with other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are, which offer lending, leasing, payments, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators/processors or other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, some competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients, and some competitors may offer a specialized set of specific products or service. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to 24 table of contents do business, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking's anticipated benefits. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risks and/or losses to us. we have implemented a risk management framework to manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, financial, interest rate, legal and regulatory, compliance, strategic, reputation, fiduciary, global, sovereign, and general economic risks. our framework also includes financial or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. there is no assurance that our risk management framework will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately mitigate any risk or loss to us. if our framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the market valuation and 12-month forward looking earnings sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our available-for-sale securities, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the economic value of equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our economic value of equity ( eve ). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet as of the period-end reporting date. the market interest rate changes that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following: (1) national prime and svb prime rates; (2) 1-month and 3-month libor; and (3) fed funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans, variable rate available-for-sale securities and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. additionally, deposit pricing generally follows overall changes in short-term interest rates. effective january 1, 2012, we enhanced certain model assumptions related to the decay rates on our deposits with no stated maturity, such as noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing checking accounts, money market accounts and interest-bearing sweep deposits. as a result we have recast prior period eve and nii sensitivities to provide a more comparable basis for the current period-end analysis. the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011 , related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points. 79 table of contents estimated estimated increase in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii change in interest rates (basis points) eve amount percent nii amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2012: +200 $ 3,176,231 $ 345,925 12.2 % $ 834,208 $ 137,021 19.7 % +100 2,862,361 32,055 1.1 757,662 60,475 8.7 2,830,306 697,187 -100 2,981,216 150,910 5.3 671,976 (25,211 ) (3.6 ) -200 3,012,121 181,815 6.4 670,445 (26,742 ) (3.8 ) december 31, 2011: +200 $ 3,003,465 $ 508,947 20.4 % $ 735,740 $ 106,717 17.0 % +100 2,729,000 234,482 9.4 671,880 42,857 6.8 2,494,518 629,023 -100 2,619,182 124,664 5.0 592,325 (36,698 ) (5.8 ) -200 2,626,452 131,934 5.3 583,214 (45,809 ) (7.3 ) economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes that we anticipate or may make to reduce our eve exposure in response to a change in market interest rates as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk and basis risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates for each interest rate scenario based on a long-term historical deposit study of our clients. deposit balance decay rates are not sensitive to changes in interest rates and are modeled based on a long-term historical deposit study of our clients. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our base case eve at december 31, 2012 increased from december 31, 2011 by $336 million primarily due to the change in balance sheet mix, the growth in interest-earning assets and lower market yield curves. the asset growth was primarily due to an increase in loans and available-for-sale securities, which grew by $2.0 billion and $807 million , respectively. eve sensitivity decreased in the simulated upward interest rate movement due to the addition of fixed rate available-for-sale securities and fixed rate loans, which partially offset the increase in the valuation of deposits. in the simulated downward interest rate movements, eve sensitivity increased slightly due to the combined effects of lower yield curve and deposit rates being at or near their absolute floors thus muting the negative effects of the downward interest rate shocks. 12-month net interest income simulation our expected 12-month nii at december 31, 2012 increased from december 31, 2011 by $68.2 million primarily due to growth of $2.0 billion in our loan portfolio. this growth was funded primarily by increases in deposit balances. nii sensitivity increased in the simulated upward interest rate movements due to growth in variable rate loans and noninterest-bearing demand deposits. in the simulated downward interest rate movements, the nii sensitivity decreased due to the current low rate environment as certain of our deposit and loan rates are at or near their floors, which limits some of the downward rate sensitivity. the simulation model used in the above analysis embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below 0.0%. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates for each interest rate scenario based on a long-term historical deposit study of our clients. these assumptions may change in future periods based on management discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 80 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries' (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2012, based on criteria established in internal control-integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting (item 9a.(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2012, based on criteria established in internal control-integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission . we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2012, and our report dated february 27, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california february 27, 2013 81 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income and/or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity event. over the past years, overall economic conditions have improved, particularly since the financial crisis of 2008. venture capital financing activity, as well as m&amp;as and ipos - activities on which venture capital firms rely to exit investments to realize returns --- have increased to healthier levels. if current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. in such case, venture capital firms may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. some of our loans to our corporate finance and other larger clients may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity. we have been continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger corporate and private equity clients, as well as to underwrite larger loans. these larger loans include loans equal to or greater than $20 million to a single client, which has over time represented, and continues to represent, an increasingly larger proportion of our total loan portfolio. additionally, in recent periods, we have increased our efforts to make sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings that are typically sponsored by our private equity clients. these buyout loans tend to be larger in size, many of which individually are greater than $20 million. increasing our loan commitments, especially larger loans, could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. we may also enter into financing arrangements with our clients, the repayment of which may be dependent on third parties' financial condition or ability to meet their payment obligations. for example, we enter into factoring arrangements which are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. or, we make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks, or we enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us. in our portfolio of venture capital and private equity firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. in recent periods, we have increased our efforts to make these capital call lines of credit. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients' inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. we also lend primarily to venture capital/private equity professionals through our private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. we also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our wine practice. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment), and overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather, drought, or other natural conditions). in january 2014, governor jerry brown declared a drought emergency for the state of california due to extreme low levels of rainfall. most of our clients' wineries and vineyards are based in california. the drought and any restrictions on water usage may have a material adverse affect on our borrowing clients and their ability to repay their loans. 17 table of contents see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations --- consolidated financial condition under item 7 of part ii of this report. based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. see note 17 off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees and other commitments of the notes to consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective venture capital/private equity firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our venture capital/private equity fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management's estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we offer interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio, and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety 18 table of contents of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, regulatory requirements, and a change over time in the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the federal funds, prime, libor or treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. sustained low levels of market interest rates, as we have been experiencing, could continue to place downward pressure on our net income levels. unexpected or further interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. client deposits are the primary source of liquidity for the bank. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity supplements our liquidity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and, finally, through unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the fed funds market. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any failure to manage our liquidity effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness and business, or our overall reputation. any damage to our reputation can also have an adverse affect on our liquidity and our business. equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and m&amp;a markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science industries. we have also made investments through svb financial or our svb capital family of funds primarily in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments depend upon various factors, some of which are beyond our control. those factors include the level of ipo and m&amp;a activity (or other exit activity), legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell equity positions held (including the expiration of any lock-up agreements), the perceived and actual performance and future value of the underlying portfolio companies, the current valuation of the financial instruments, the timing of any actual dispositions, and overall market conditions. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be different than the then-current recorded fair market value. 19 table of contents we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on, among other things, the underlying value of the issuing companies, which may also vary materially from period to period. see note 12 derivative financial instruments" of the notes to consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our venture capital/private equity fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of available equity for such awards is subject to stockholder approval. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber-attacks. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods. moreover, in recent months, several large corporations, including retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, where in some cases, exposing sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our 20 table of contents security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability ---- any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed, and are continually developing, a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services and for the company to operate effectively, we have developed, purchased and licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions, or damage to our reputation. for example, we are in the process of enhancing our core banking system, as well as implementing and enhancing other systems to support specific business units, including our international operations. we also outsource certain operational and other functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies. if we do not implement our systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. there is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as india, hong kong, china, israel, and the united kingdom, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. we face risks associated with international operations. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. in 2012, we opened a banking branch in the united kingdom, as well as a joint venture bank in china. we also have offices in hong kong, india and israel. we plan to expand our operations in some of our current international markets. we may also expand our business beyond those markets. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our 22 table of contents ability to generate revenues from foreign operations, risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners and other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, cultural differences, political and economic risks, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, and other foreign laws and regulations. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the cfpb, and the dbo, as well as the international regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise adversely affect the activities in which we may engage, may affect our ability to expand our business over time, may result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. furthermore, the bank for international settlement's basel committee on banking supervision has adopted new capital, leverage and liquidity guidelines under the basel accord and the federal reserve board has also finalized new capital requirements on banks and bank holding companies, all of which have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously required. such rules also impose certain company-run stress testing requirements, which will be subject to disclosure in 2015, and could require us to raise additional capital or take certain other actions depending on the results of the stress tests. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in particular, we are subject to the volcker rule which restricts or limits us from sponsoring or having ownership interests in covered funds including venture capital and private equity funds. we must be in compliance with these rules by july 21, 2015, unless the compliance period is extended by the federal reserve board, which may grant up to two one-year extensions and an additional extension of up to five years for certain investments deemed to be illiquid. under this rule, we will have to wind-down, transfer, divest or otherwise ensure the termination or expiration of any prohibited interests prior to july 2015, unless extended up to july 2022. while we intend to seek the maximum extensions available to us, there is no assurance that we will be granted any of these extensions, and thus, we may be required to divest our prohibited interests within a short period of time. we currently estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests have an aggregate carrying value of approximately $282 million as of december 31, 2013. these covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable, solely, to the company in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities. these volcker rule restrictions could have a material adverse affect on our investment portfolio and results of operations. the actual impact from these restrictions will be dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory extensions, our ability to sell the investments, our carrying value at the time of any sale, the actual sales price realized, the timing of such sales, and any additional regulatory guidance or interpretations of the volcker rule. see business - supervision and regulation under item 1 of part i of this report. we face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the bank secrecy act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. the bank secrecy act, the usa patriot act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. the federal financial crimes enforcement network is authorized to impose significant civil 23 table of contents money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the u.s. department of justice, drug enforcement administration, and internal revenue service. we are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the office of foreign assets control and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act. if our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, the nasdaq stock market, finra, and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, svb asset management and svb securities, as applicable. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the bank's financial needs and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the fasb or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. svb financial relies on warrant income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: warrant income, investment distributions, and dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these sources generate income for svb financial to pay operating costs and to the extent there are any ---- borrowings, dividends, and share repurchases. our equity warrant assets and investment interests are held by svb financial, and any income derived from those financial instruments are subject to a variety of factors as discussed in this risk factors section. moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. anti-takeover provisions and federal law, particular those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse affect on our stock price. as a financial institution, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the change in bank control act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either federal reserve approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the federal reserve and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring control of a state member bank, such as the bank. in addition, dbo approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the bank. moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring 24 table of contents us, even if beneficial to our stockholders. these laws and provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. strategic/reputation/other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our business while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated by these general industry niches: technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine. our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications and electronics), software and related services, and clean technology (energy and resource innovation). our life science clients are concentrated in the medical devices and biotechnology sectors. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. in addition, we are continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and/or to make larger loans, which may increase our concentration risk. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to emerging stage to mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of ipo's or m&amp;a activity of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science and venture capital/private equity industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. because our business and strategy are largely based on this venture capital/private equity financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including unfavorable economic conditions and adverse trends in investment or fund-raising levels, may have a material adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. we compete with other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are, which offer lending, leasing, payments, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators/processors or other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, some competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients, and some competitors may offer a specialized set of specific products or service. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. 25 table of contents our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. in particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies and to retain those companies as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. in order to maintain or increase our market share, we must be able meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. not only must we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards, we must also endeavor to innovate new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or service we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. we are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, experimental in nature. for example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience. we are also expanding our payments capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and exploring new evolving payments systems, such as virtual currencies known as bitcoin. our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and/or potential liability. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. our risk management framework may not be effective in identifying, managing or mitigating risks and/or losses to us. we have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, financial, interest rate, legal and regulatory, compliance, strategic, reputation, fiduciary, global, sovereign, and general economic risks. our framework also includes financial or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. in addition, under this framework, we are currently developing a risk appetite statement to detail our risk tolerance levels at an enterprise-wide level. there is no assurance that our risk management framework will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. if our framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences. 26 table of contents the price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. among the factors that could affect our stock price are: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors; actions by institutional stockholders; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. the trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities, which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant interest rate sensitive risks and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the market valuation and 12-month forward looking earnings sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our available-for-sale securities, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the economic value of equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our economic value of equity ( eve ). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet as of the period-end reporting date. the market interest rate changes that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following: (1) national prime and svb prime rates; (2) 1-month and 3-month libor; and (3) fed funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans, variable rate available-for-sale securities and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. additionally, deposit pricing generally follows overall changes in short-term interest rates. the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points. estimated estimated increase in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii change in interest rates (basis points) eve amount percent nii amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2013: +200 $ 4,656,411 $ 477,866 11.4 % $ 990,190 $ 161,314 19.5 % +100 4,382,397 203,852 4.9 899,336 70,460 8.5 4,178,545 828,876 -100 3,960,086 (218,459 ) (5.2 ) 826,222 (2,654 ) (0.3 ) -200 4,041,604 (136,941 ) (3.3 ) 822,448 (6,428 ) (0.8 ) december 31, 2012: +200 $ 3,176,231 $ 345,925 12.2 % $ 834,208 $ 137,021 19.7 % +100 2,862,361 32,055 1.1 757,662 60,475 8.7 2,830,306 697,187 -100 2,981,216 150,910 5.3 671,976 (25,211 ) (3.6 ) -200 3,012,121 181,815 6.4 670,445 (26,742 ) (3.8 ) 83 table of contents economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes that we anticipate or may make to reduce our eve exposure in response to a change in market interest rates as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk and basis risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. in addition, we assume different rates of deposit balance decreases for each interest rate scenario based on a long-term historical deposit study of our clients. our base case eve at december 31, 2013 increased from december 31, 2012 by $1.3 billion primarily due to the change in balance sheet mix and a steeper yield curve due to market condition. the steeper market curve had a $620 million positive impact on the eve. the change in balance sheet mix was primarily reflective of a $2.0 billion increase in our period-end loan portfolio, a $1.1 billion increase in investment securities and a $530 million increase in cash and cash equivalents. the increases were offset by an increase of $3.3 billion in deposits. eve sensitivity slightly increased in the simulated upward interest rate movements due to a $2.0 billion increase in noninterest-bearing deposits. in the simulated downward interest rate movements, eve sensitivity decreased due to steeper and higher market yield curves. the higher yield curve had a bigger reduction impact on noninterest-bearing deposits, which more than offset the asset value increase from the down rate scenarios. 12-month net interest income simulation our estimated 12-month nii at december 31, 2013 increased from december 31, 2012 by $132 million primarily due to an increase of $2.0 billion in our loan portfolio which is partially offset by an increase of $1.3 billion in interest-bearing deposits. nii sensitivity stays relatively unchanged in the simulated upward interest rate movements while nii sensitivity decreased in the simulated downward interest rate movements. the nii sensitivity decreased in the simulated downward rate movements due to a lower short-end market yield curve, which reduced the negative impact of rate reset from the variable rate assets. the simulation model used in the above analysis embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below 0.0%. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates for each interest rate scenario based on a long-term historical deposit study of our clients. these assumptions may change in future periods based on management discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 84 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries' (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2013, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal controls over financial reporting (item 9a(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2013, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2013, and our report dated february 27, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california february 27, 2014 85 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income and/or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage privately-held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity event. over the past several years, overall economic conditions have improved, particularly since the financial crisis of 2008. venture capital financing activity, as well as mergers &amp; acquisitions ( m&amp;a ) and initial public offerings ( ipos ) - activities on which venture capital firms rely to exit investments to realize returns - have increased to healthier levels. if current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. in such case, venture capital firms 17 table of contents may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science &amp; healthcare industry sectors, the two sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for their securities, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. some of our loans to our larger clients (including those in our corporate finance practice which serves our large corporate clients, typically with annual revenues over $75 million) may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, and/or cash flow. we have been continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger corporate and private equity clients, as well as to underwrite larger loans. these larger loans include loans equal to or greater than $20 million to a single client, which has over time represented, and continues to represent, an increasingly larger proportion of our total loan portfolio. additionally, in recent periods, we have increased our efforts to make sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings that are typically sponsored by our private equity clients. these buyout loans tend to be larger in size, many of which individually are greater than $20 million. increasing our loan commitments, especially larger loans, could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. moreover, we have been increasing our participation in larger syndicated credit facilities agented by other financial institutions, where our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is limited to our participation interest . we may also enter into financing arrangements with our clients, the repayment of which may be dependent on third parties' financial condition or ability to meet their payment obligations. for example, we enter into factoring arrangements which are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. we also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks, or we enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. we also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers' revenues from third parties. ultimately, these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us. in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. in recent periods, we have increased the levels of these capital call lines of credit. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients' inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. we also lend primarily to private equity/venture capital professionals through svb private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. we also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our wine practice. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment), and overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather, drought, earthquake, or other natural conditions). the state of california continues to experience severe drought conditions for the fourth straight year in 2015 due to extremely low levels of rainfall. in january 2014, governor jerry brown declared a drought emergency for california. most of our clients' wineries and vineyards are based in california, and the drought and any restrictions on water usage may have a material adverse effect on our borrower clients in our wine practice and their ability to repay their loans. see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations --- consolidated financial condition under part ii, item 7 in this report . based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision 18 table of contents for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. moreover, our regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use for calculating, and the adequacy of, our allowance for loan losses. our regulators, based on their judgment, may conclude that we should modify our methodology or models, reclassify or downgrade our loans, increase our allowance for loan losses , and/or recognize further losses. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. see note 18 - off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees and other commitments of the notes to consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 in this report for additional details. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective private equity/venture capital firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our private equity/venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management's estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we offer interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio, and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, regulatory requirements, and a change over time in the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the federal funds, national prime, the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. sustained low levels of market interest rates, as we have been experiencing, could continue to place downward pressure on our net income levels. unexpected or further interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our 19 table of contents control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. in addition, changes in the method of determining libor or other reference rates as a result of concerns in recent years regarding the accuracy of such reference rates may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread, financial condition or results of operations. any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. client deposits are the primary source of liquidity for the bank. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity supplements our liquidity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and, finally, through unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the federal funds market. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any failure to manage our liquidity effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness and business, or our overall reputation. any damage to our reputation can also have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our business. equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and m&amp;a markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science &amp; healthcare industries. we have also made investments through svb financial or our svb capital family of funds primarily in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments depend upon various factors, some of which are beyond our control. those factors include the level of ipo and m&amp;a activity (or other exit activity), legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell equity positions held (including the expiration of any lock-up agreements), the perceived and actual performance and future value of the underlying portfolio companies, the current valuation of the financial instruments, the timing of any actual dispositions, and overall market conditions. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be different than the then-current recorded fair market value. in addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of the total investment portfolio. 20 table of contents we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on, among other things, the underlying value of the issuing companies, which may also vary materially from period to period. see note 13 - derivative financial instruments " of the notes to consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 in this report for additional details. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our private equity/venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of available equity for such awards is subject to stockholder approval. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber-attacks. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods. moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees. in addition, svb provides card transaction 21 table of contents processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks. under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. furthermore, svb's cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third party processing services. as such, svb is subject to risk from data breaches of such third party's information systems or their payment processors. such a data security breach could compromise svb account information. svb may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. we also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through svb's systems, as well as financial analytics services. in the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. in the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages. in addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability - any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed, and are continually developing, a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services and for the company to operate effectively, we have developed, purchased and licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions, or damage to our reputation. for example, we are in the process of enhancing our core banking system, as well as implementing and enhancing other systems to support specific business units, including our international operations. we also outsource certain operational and other functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies. if we do not implement our systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth or reputation. 22 table of contents business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. there is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of california, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a significant portion of our client borrowers are located in, or have operations in, the state of california, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property. these clients include our premium winery and vineyard clients, our private bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients with california offices. if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire or other natural disaster in california or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as the united kingdom, hong kong, china, israel, and india, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information and conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. in some instances, our regulators may hold us responsible for the performance of parties with which we have these relationships. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of 23 table of contents operations, financial reporting or reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from the nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation. we face risks associated with international operations. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. in 2012, we opened a banking branch in the united kingdom, as well as a joint venture bank in china. we also currently have offices in hong kong, india and israel but have agreed to sell our subsidiary in india. we plan to expand our operations in some of our current international markets. we may also expand our business beyond those markets. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations, risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners and other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, data security risks, cultural differences, political and economic risks, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, and other foreign laws and regulations. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve board, the consumer financial protection bureau, and the california dbo, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage, may affect our ability to expand our business over time, may result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums , and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. further, the stringency of the federal bank prudential regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size grows. in particular, under the dodd-frank act and current federal reserve board regulations thereunder, certain enhanced prudential standards will apply to us if we reach or exceed $50 billion in total consolidated assets. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet 24 table of contents other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. furthermore, the bank for international settlement's basel committee on banking supervision has adopted new capital, leverage and liquidity guidelines under the basel accord ( basel iii ). the federal reserve board has adopted regulations that generally align with these international standards, and the new federal reserve board regulations have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously in place. the federal reserve board also has adopted certain stress testing requirements, the results of which we are required to submit to the federal reserve board and to disclose to the public. in addition, depending on the results of the stress tests, we could be required to raise additional capital or take certain other actions. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to the volcker rule, which limits certain trading and investment activities and has required us to modify our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship business and activities. the volcker rule restricts, among other things, a bank's proprietary trading activities and a bank's ability to sponsor or invest in certain privately offered funds, including certain venture capital, hedge and private equity funds. although we do not believe that we engage in any proprietary trading that is prohibited under the volcker rule, certain of our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship businesses and activities are affected by the rule. in particular, the volcker rule restricts or limits us from sponsoring or having ownership interests in covered funds including venture capital and private equity funds. in general, we must be in compliance with these restrictions by july 21, 2015; however, certain legacy investments and relationships are subject to an extended conformance period that ends in july 2016. the federal reserve board has indicated that it intends to extend this conformance deadline to july 2017. in addition, the federal reserve board may extend the conformance deadline for up to an additional five-year years (until july 2022) for investments that are considered illiquid. we intend to seek the maximum extensions (up to july 2022) available to us. under this rule, we will have to wind-down, transfer, divest or otherwise ensure the termination or expiration of any prohibited interests prior to the end of the applicable conformance period. while we intend to seek the maximum extensions available to us, there is no assurance that we will be granted any of these extensions, and thus, we may be required to divest our prohibited interests within a short period of time and/or at possibly distressed prices. we estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests had an aggregate carrying value of approximately $246 million (and an aggregate fair value of approximately $338 million) as of december 31, 2014. these covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable, solely, to us in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities. these volcker rule restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio and results of operations. the actual impact from these restrictions will be dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory extensions, our ability to sell the investments, our carrying value at the time of any sale, the actual sales price realized, the timing of such sales, and any additional regulatory guidance or interpretations of the volcker rule. if we continue to grow and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed $50 billion, we will be subject to more stringent prudential standards required by the dodd-frank act and regulations adopted by the federal reserve board for large bank holding companies. under the federal reserve board's enhanced prudential standard regulations, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to more stringent prudential requirements. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the more stringent prudential standards include requirements for risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, capital stress testing, single-party credit exposure limits, and early remediation --- all of which requires appropriate resources and planning. the dodd-frank act permits, but does not require the federal reserve to apply to such large bank holding companies enhanced prudential standards in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures . as of december 31, 2014, our total consolidated assets were $39.3 billion. if we continue to grow, either organically or potentially by future acquisitions, and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed the $50 billion threshold, we will be subject to such enhanced prudential standards, which will impose more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increase our compliance costs. see the section entitled regulatory matters . 25 table of contents we face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the bank secrecy act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. the bank secrecy act, the usa patriot act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. the federal financial crimes enforcement network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the u.s. department of justice, drug enforcement administration, and internal revenue service. we are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the office of foreign assets control and compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act. if our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), the nasdaq stock market, the financial industry regulatory authority ("finra"), and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, svb asset management and svb securities, as applicable. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the bank's financial needs and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental investigations and inquiries, relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. while we have not recognized a material accrual liability for lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters currently pending or threatened may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. 26 table of contents svb financial relies on warrant income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: warrant income, investment distributions, and dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these sources generate income for svb financial to pay operating costs and borrowing costs and to the extent there are any ---- borrowings, dividends, and share repurchases. our equity warrant assets and investment interests are held by svb financial, and any income derived from those financial instruments are subject to a variety of factors as discussed in this risk factors section. moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. anti-takeover provisions and federal law, particular those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price. as a financial institution, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the change in bank control act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either federal reserve approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the federal reserve and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring control of a state member bank, such as the bank. in addition, dbo approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the bank. moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if beneficial to our stockholders. these laws and provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. strategic/reputation/other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk, including by client industry, size or stage of client companies and client geography, increases the potential for significant losses in our business. while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated by these general industry niches: technology, life science &amp; healthcare, private equity/venture capital and premium wine. our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software and internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. our life science &amp; healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. we take deposits from these clients and are also continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and to make larger loans. in addition, our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may increase our concentration risk. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to early-stage to mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of ipo's or m&amp;a activity of companies within our technology and life science &amp; healthcare industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the 27 table of contents technology, life science &amp; healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science &amp; healthcare industry sectors. because our business and strategy are largely based on this private equity/venture capital financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including unfavorable economic conditions and adverse trends in investment or fund-raising levels, may have a material adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth. we compete with other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are, which offer lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete with other alternative lenders, such as marketplace lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators/processors or other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, some competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients, and some competitors may offer a specialized set of specific products or service. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. in particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies and to retain those companies as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. in order to maintain or increase our market share, we must meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. not only must we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards, but we must also innovate new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. we are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, experimental in nature. for example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience or where legal and regulatory requirements are less certain than in the united states. we are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems, such as bitcoin and other virtual currencies. given our evolving geographic and product diversification, our innovative product solutions, and our limited experience, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputation and operational risk, as well as more or more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks. our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any 28 table of contents partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we face certain risks associated with the pending sale of svb india finance private limited . on january 16, 2015, we announced that the bank and certain of its subsidiaries had entered into a share purchase agreement to sell all of the outstanding capital stock of the bank's subsidiary, svb india finance private limited, a non-banking financial company in india ( svbif ), for a total sale price equal to the sum of svbif's share capital and reserves and surplus accounts (its net asset value) as of a date shortly prior to the closing. based on svbif's balance sheet as of december 31, 2014, we estimate the total sale price will be approximately inr 3.0 billion (approximately $47.8 million, calculated based on the currency exchange rate as of february 5, 2015). the transaction value will be determined in indian rupees, and the u.s. dollar value that we receive will be dependent on the currency exchange rate at the time of the actual close of the transaction. accordingly, volatility in the currency exchange rate between indian rupees and u.s. dollars could cause unexpected changes in the u.s. dollar value that we expect to receive from the sale of svbif. in addition, we may incur additional loan charge-offs related to svbif, which could impact the final closing sales price. moreover, the closing of the transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval by the reserve bank of india. there can be no assurance that the reserve bank of india will approve the sale or that we will otherwise be able to complete the sale based on the expected terms of the transaction, or within our expected time frame or at all. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. our risk management framework may not be effective, which could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our mitigation of risks and/or losses, as well as have adverse regulatory consequences. we have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, financial, interest rate, legal and regulatory, compliance, strategic, reputational, fiduciary, global, currency, sovereign, and general economic risks. our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. there is no assurance that our risk management framework will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. if our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences. our stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. in accordance with the dodd-frank act and the federal reserve board's regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests. the results of our capital stress tests may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions 29 table of contents under certain circumstances. our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. these models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. in addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends. the price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. among the factors that could affect our stock price are: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors; actions by institutional stockholders; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. the trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities, which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant interest rate sensitive risks and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the market valuation and 12-month forward looking earnings sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our available-for-sale securities, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the economic value of equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our economic value of equity ( eve ). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet as of the period-end reporting date. the market interest rate changes that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following: (1) national prime and svb prime rates; (2) 1-month and 3-month libor; and (3) fed funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans, variable rate available-for-sale securities and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. additionally, deposit pricing generally follows overall changes in short-term interest rates. the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points. estimated estimated increase/(decrease) in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii change in interest rates (basis points) eve amount percent nii amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2014: +200 $ 6,201,773 $ 1,237,900 24.9 % $ 1,242,321 $ 223,059 21.9 % +100 5,598,887 635,014 12.8 1,124,643 105,381 10.3 4,963,873 1,019,262 -100 4,927,749 (36,124 ) (0.7 ) 979,982 (39,280 ) (3.9 ) -200 5,119,636 155,763 3.1 953,556 (65,706 ) (6.4 ) december 31, 2013: +200 $ 4,656,411 $ 477,866 11.4 % $ 990,190 $ 161,314 19.5 % +100 4,382,397 203,852 4.9 899,336 70,460 8.5 4,178,545 828,876 -100 3,960,086 (218,459 ) (5.2 ) 826,222 (2,654 ) (0.3 ) -200 4,041,604 (136,941 ) (3.3 ) 822,448 (6,428 ) (0.8 ) 85 table of contents economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes that we anticipate or may make to reduce our eve exposure in response to a change in market interest rates as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk and basis risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. in addition, we assume different rates of deposit balance decreases for each interest rate scenario based on a long-term historical deposit study of our clients. our base case eve at december 31, 2014 increased from december 31, 2013 by $785 million primarily due to the change in balance sheet mix and a flatter yield curve due to market conditions. the flatter market curve negatively impacted the eve by $646 million. the change in balance sheet mix had a positive impact of $1.4 billion to our base. this positive impact was reflective of a $9.0 billion increase in fixed income investment securities, a $3.5 billion increase in our period-end loan portfolio, and a $257 million increase in cash and cash equivalents. the increases were offset by an increase of $11.9 billion in deposits. eve sensitivity increased in the simulated upward interest rate movements due to an $8.7 billion increase in noninterest-bearing deposits. in the simulated downward interest rate movements, eve sensitivity decreased due to flatter and lower market yield curves. in the simulated downward 200 bps interest rate movement, the eve sensitivity turned positive due to a lower market yield curve limiting the market value impact on noninterest-bearing deposits while asset values increase. the limited impact on deposits is attributed to deposit rates being at or near their absolute floors. 12-month net interest income simulation our estimated 12-month nii at december 31, 2014 increased from december 31, 2013 by $190 million primarily due to an increase of $3.5 billion in our period-end loan portfolio and a $9.0 billion increase in fixed income investment securities , which were partially offset by an increase of $3.2 billion in interest-bearing deposits and lower yields on investments and loans. nii sensitivity increased in both the simulated upward and downward interest rate movements. the nii sensitivity increased due to growth in mostly variable rate loans, which reduced the impact of the rate reset from interest-bearing deposits. the simulation model used in the above analysis embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below 0.0%. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates for each interest rate scenario based on a historical deposit study of our clients. these assumptions may change in future periods based on management discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 86 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries' (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal controls over financial reporting (item 9a(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2014, and our report dated february 26, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california february 26, 2015 87 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 18 table of contents credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income and/or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage privately-held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity event. since the financial crisis of 2008, overall economic conditions have relatively improved. financing activity, as well as mergers &amp; acquisitions ( m&amp;a ) and initial public offerings ( ipos ) - activities on which investors may rely on to exit investments to realize returns - have been at healthier levels. valuations of companies, on which such activities are based, have also increased, though in some cases at potentially inflated levels. economic and market conditions fluctuate and may be volatile. if current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down, or valuations may drop, in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. in such case, investors may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors, the two sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for their securities, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. a meaningful portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of our larger loans. as of december 31, 2015, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled $6.8 billion, or 40.6 percent, of our portfolio. these larger loans have over time represented, and continue to represent, an increasingly larger portion of our total loan portfolio. these loans include capital call lines of credit to our private equity/venture capital clients, as loans to our larger clients (including those in our corporate finance practice which serves our large corporate clients, typically with annual revenues over $75 million) which may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, and/or cash flow. we have been continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger corporate and private equity clients, as well as to underwrite larger loans. additionally, in recent periods, we have increased our efforts to make sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings that are typically sponsored by our private equity clients. these buyout loans tend to be larger in size, many of which individually are greater than $20 million. increasing our loan commitments, especially larger loans, could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. moreover, we have been increasing our participation in larger syndicated credit facilities agented by other financial institutions, where our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is limited to our participation interest . we may also enter into financing arrangements with our clients, the repayment of which may be dependent on third parties' financial condition or ability to meet their payment obligations. for example, we enter into factoring arrangements which are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. we also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks, or we enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. we also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers' revenues from third parties. ultimately, these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us. in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. in recent periods, we have increased the levels of these capital call lines of credit. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients' inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. we also lend primarily to private equity/venture capital professionals through svb private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. in certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulties. while such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in the borrower meeting their financial commitments. we also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through svb wine. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income 19 table of contents (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment), and overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather, drought, earthquake, or other natural conditions). the state of california continues to experience severe drought conditions since 2011 due to extremely low levels of rainfall. in january 2014, governor jerry brown declared a drought emergency for california, and in april 2015, governor brown announced a state-wide 25 percent mandatory reduction in water usage and a series of actions to conserve water. most of our clients' wineries and vineyards are based in california, and the drought and any current or future restrictions on water usage may have a material adverse effect on our svb wine borrower clients and their ability to repay their loans. see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations --- consolidated financial condition under part ii, item 7 in this report . based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. moreover, our regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use for calculating, and the adequacy of, our allowance for loan losses. our regulators, based on their judgment, may conclude that we should modify our methodology or models, reclassify or downgrade our loans, increase our allowance for loan losses , and/or recognize further losses. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. see note 19 - off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees and other commitments of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 in this report for additional details. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective private equity/venture capital firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our private equity/venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management's estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded 20 table of contents credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we offer interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio, and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, regulatory requirements, and a change over time in the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the federal funds, national prime, the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. on december 16, 2015, the federal reserve raised interest rates for the first time since 2007. however, if interest rates do not continue to rise, low rates could constrain our net income levels. unexpected or further interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. in addition, changes in the method of determining libor or other reference rates may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread, financial condition or results of operations. any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. client deposits are the primary source of liquidity for the bank. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity supplements our liquidity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and, finally, through unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the federal funds market. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any failure to manage our liquidity effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness and business, or our overall reputation. any damage to our reputation can also have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our business. 21 table of contents equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and m&amp;a markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science/healthcare industries. we have also made investments through svb financial or our svb capital family of funds primarily in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments depend upon various factors, some of which are beyond our control. those factors include the level of ipo and m&amp;a activity (or other exit activity), legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell equity positions held (including the expiration of any lock-up agreements), the perceived and actual performance and future value of the underlying portfolio companies, the current valuation of the financial instruments, the timing of any actual dispositions, and overall market conditions. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be different than the then-current recorded fair market value. in addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of the total investment portfolio. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on, among other things, the underlying value of the issuing companies, which may also vary materially from period to period. see note 14 - derivative financial instruments " of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 in this report for additional details. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and m&amp;a activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our private equity/venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of available equity for such awards is subject to stockholder approval, as well as our equity burn rate limit. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. 22 table of contents the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber-attacks. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods. moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us, which could subject us to potential liability. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees and third-party contractors used by us. in addition, svb provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks. under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. furthermore, svb's cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third-party processing services. as such, svb is subject to risk from data breaches of such third-party's information systems or their payment processors, including due to resulting unauthorized card use. such a data security breach could compromise svb account information, cause losses on card accounts and increase litigation costs. svb may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. we also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through svb's systems, as well as financial analytics services. in the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. in the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages. in addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. the more recent advent of state-sponsored or terrorist-sponsored efforts to hack or disable information technology systems increases risks, since the motivation may be for geopolitical as much as for financial gain. although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; force majeure claims by us or critical suppliers; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability - any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 table of contents we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed, and are continually developing, a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services and for the company to operate effectively, we have developed, purchased and licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions, or damage to our reputation. we routinely enhance our core banking systems, as well as implement or enhance other systems to support specific business units, including our international operations. we also outsource certain operational and other functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies. if we do not implement our systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth or reputation. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. there is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of california, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a significant portion of our client borrowers are located in, or have operations in, the state of california, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property. these clients include our premium winery and vineyard clients, our private bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients with california offices. if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire or other natural disaster in california or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as the united kingdom, hong kong, china, israel, and india, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. in some instances, our regulators may hold us responsible for the performance of parties with which we have these relationships. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial 24 table of contents banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting or reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from the nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation. we face risks associated with international operations. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. in 2012, we opened a banking branch in the united kingdom, as well as a joint venture bank in china. we also currently have offices in hong kong and israel. we plan to expand our operations and business activities in some of our current international markets, as well as, expand our business beyond those markets. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations, risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners and other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, data security or transfer risks, cultural differences, political and economic risks, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, privacy laws, and other foreign laws and regulations. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 25 table of contents legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the cfpb, and the dbo, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage, may affect our ability to expand our business over time, may result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums , and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. further, the stringency of the federal bank prudential regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size grows. in particular, under the dodd-frank act and current federal reserve regulations, certain enhanced prudential standards will apply to us if we reach or exceed $50 billion in total consolidated assets. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. furthermore, the basel committee has adopted new capital, leverage and liquidity guidelines under the basel accord (known as basel iii ). the federal reserve has adopted regulations that generally align with these international standards, and the new federal reserve regulations have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously in place. such requirements also include limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executives if certain minimum capital requirements are not maintained. such limitations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and stockholders, as well as our ability to recruit or retain key executives. the federal reserve also has adopted certain stress testing requirements, the results of which we are required to submit to the federal reserve and to disclose to the public. in addition, depending on the results of the stress tests, we could be required to raise additional capital or take certain other actions. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to the volcker rule, which limits certain trading and investment activities and has required us to modify our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship business and activities. the volcker rule restricts, among other things, a bank's proprietary trading activities and a bank's ability to sponsor or invest in certain privately offered funds, including certain venture capital, hedge and private equity funds. although we do not believe that we engage in any proprietary trading that is prohibited under the volcker rule, certain of our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship businesses and activities are affected by the rule. in particular, the volcker rule restricts or limits us from sponsoring or having ownership interests in covered funds including venture capital and private equity funds. in general, we conformed our activities to these restrictions by july 21, 2015; however, certain legacy investments and relationships are subject to an extended conformance period that ends in july 2016. the federal reserve has indicated that it intends to extend this conformance deadline to july 2017. in addition, the federal reserve may extend the conformance deadline for up to an additional five-year years (until july 2022) for investments that are considered illiquid. we intend to seek the maximum extensions (up to july 2022) available to us. under this rule, we will have to wind-down, transfer, divest or otherwise ensure the termination or expiration of any prohibited interests prior to the end of the applicable conformance period. while we intend to seek the maximum extensions available to us, the process and standards that apply to any such additional extensions are not clear at this time, and there is no assurance that we will be granted any of these extensions, and thus, we may be required to divest our prohibited interests within a short period of time and/or at possibly distressed prices. we estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests had an aggregate carrying value of approximately $210 million (and an aggregate fair value of approximately $321 million) as of december 31, 2015. these covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable, solely, to us in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities. these volcker rule restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio and results of operations. the actual impact from these restrictions will be dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory extensions, our ability to sell the investments, our carrying value at the time of any sale, the actual sales price realized, the timing of such sales, and any additional regulatory guidance or interpretations of the volcker rule. 26 table of contents if we continue to grow and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed $50 billion, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including enhanced prudential standards, required by the dodd-frank act and regulations adopted by the federal reserve for large bank holding companies. under the federal reserve's enhanced prudential standard regulations, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets are subject to more stringent prudential requirements. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the more stringent prudential standards include requirements for risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, supervisory capital stress testing, single counterparty credit exposure limits, and early remediation --- all of which require appropriate resources and planning. the dodd-frank act permits, but does not require the federal reserve to apply to such large bank holding companies enhanced prudential standards in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures . for information about the regulations applicable to bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, see the section "business---supervision and regulation---enhanced prudential standards," under this part i, item 1. as of december 31, 2015 , our total consolidated assets were $44.7 billion . if we continue to grow, either organically or potentially by future acquisitions, and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed $50 billion, we will become subject to such enhanced prudential standards, which will impose more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increase our compliance costs. specifically, svb financial would become subject to the more stringent prudential standards at the end of a four-quarter period over the course of which svb financial averages total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. as described above in the section business---supervision and regulation---enhanced prudential standards, under this part i, item 1, the various requirements to which svb financial would become subject have varying transition periods. for example, if we are subject to ccar, the federal reserve may object to or otherwise not respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions or stress test results, and we may be limited as to how we utilize our capital, including with respect to common stock dividends and stock repurchases. in addition, if svb financial becomes subject to the federal reserve's and the fdic's resolution planning rules, and the agencies jointly determine that our resolution plan is not credible, and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the federal reserve and the fdic may jointly impose on us or our subsidiaries more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or require the divestment of assets or operations. further, under the modified lcr rule, svb financial would be required to measure specified unencumbered high-quality liquid assets against our expected net cash outflows, using the methodologies prescribed by the rule. as a result of the rule's application to svb financial, our holdings of high-quality liquid assets may increase and the composition of our balance sheet may change. additionally, such an increase may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations since high-quality liquid assets tend to carry lower yields. we face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the bank secrecy act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. the bank secrecy act, the usa patriot act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. the federal financial crimes enforcement network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the federal banking regulators, as well as the u.s. department of justice, drug enforcement administration, and internal revenue service. we also must comply with u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and the foreign corrupt practices act, and we, like other financial institutions, are subject to increased scrutiny for compliance with these requirements. if our anti-money laundering policies, procedures and systems, or compliance with related requirements such as the u.s. economic and trade sanctions regimes, are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 table of contents if we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), the nasdaq stock market, finra, and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, svb asset management and svb securities, as applicable. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the bank's financial needs and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental investigations and inquiries, relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. while we have not recognized a material accrual liability for lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters currently pending or threatened may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. our holding company, svb financial, relies on warrant income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: warrant income, investment distributions, and dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these sources generate income for svb financial to pay operating costs and borrowing costs and to the extent there are any ---- borrowings, dividends, and share repurchases. our equity warrant assets and investment interests are held by svb financial, and any income derived from those financial instruments are subject to a variety of factors as discussed in this risk factors section. moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. anti-takeover provisions and federal law, particular those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price. as a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the change in bank control act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either federal reserve approval must be obtained or the federal reserve, after receiving notice, not objecting prior to any person or entity acquiring control (as determined under the federal reserve's standards) of a bank holding company, such as svb financial, or a state member bank, such as the bank. in addition, dbo approval may be required in connection with 28 table of contents the acquisition of control of the bank. moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. for example, these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. strategic/reputation/other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk, including by client industry, size or stage of client companies and client geography, increases the potential for significant losses in our business. while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated by these general industry niches: technology, life science/healthcare, private equity/venture capital and premium wine. our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software and internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. our life science/healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. we take deposits from these clients and are also continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and to make larger loans. in addition, our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may increase our concentration risk. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to early-stage to mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, corporate investors, crowd-funding and other evolving sources of capital. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors or other funding sources. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of ipo's or m&amp;a activity of companies within our technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science/healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors. because our business and strategy are largely based on this private equity/venture capital financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including unfavorable economic conditions and adverse trends in investment or fund-raising levels, may have a material adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth. we compete with other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are, which offer lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete with other alternative lenders, such as online marketplace lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators/processors or other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, some competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients, and some competitors may offer a specialized set of specific products or service. when new 29 table of contents competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. in particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. in order to maintain or increase our market share, we must meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. not only must we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards, but we must also innovate new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. we are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, experimental in nature. for example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience or where legal and regulatory requirements are less certain than in the united states. we are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems, such as bitcoin and other virtual currencies. given our evolving geographic and product diversification, our innovative product solutions, and our limited experience, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputation and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks. our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial 30 table of contents reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. our risk management framework may not be effective, which could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our mitigation of risks and/or losses, as well as have adverse regulatory consequences. we have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, financial, interest rate, legal and regulatory, compliance, strategic, reputational, fiduciary, global, currency, sovereign, and general economic risks. our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. in addition, our board of directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our key business risks. there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. in addition, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion and greater are subject to more stringent risk management requirements. in the event we reach or exceed such total consolidated asset size, we will be subject to these standards, subject to the transition period described above, and may need to further enhance our risk management framework and practices. see the section "business---supervision and regulation---enhanced prudential standards," under this part i, item 1. if our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to potentially adverse regulatory consequences. we rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and result of operations and managing risk. our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may not capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. all models have certain limitations. reliance on models presents the risk that our business decisions based on information incorporated from models will be adversely affected due to incorrect, missing, or misleading information. in addition, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable. also, information that we provide to the public or regulators based on poorly designed models could be inaccurate or misleading. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. some of our decisions that the regulators evaluate could be affected adversely due to their perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. our stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. in accordance with the dodd-frank act and the federal reserve's regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests. the results of our capital stress tests may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions under certain circumstances. our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. these models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. furthermore, 31 table of contents even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. in addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends. we could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations. we are subject to the income tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. these tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income. u.s. tax laws and regulations may change from time-to-time. while impossible to predict, governments' need for additional revenue may lead to continued proposals to change tax rules in ways that could increase our effective tax rate. in addition, these changes could include a widening of the corporate tax base by including earnings from international operations that are not currently required to be included. such changes to the tax laws could have a material impact on our income tax expense. the price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. among the factors that could affect our stock price are: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors; actions by institutional stockholders; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or "exit" activities of companies in the industries we serve; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. the trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 87 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities, which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant interest rate sensitive risks and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the sensitivity of the market value of our assets and liabilities and 12-month forward looking net interest income to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our available-for-sale securities, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform a sensitivity analysis on the economic value of equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of changes in market interest rates on our economic value of equity ("eve"). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. eve is based on a snapshot of the balance sheet at a specific point in time. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of changes in market interest rates on our net interest income ("nii") assuming a static balance sheet over a 12-month period following the period-end reporting date. changes in market interest rates that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following: (1) national prime and svb prime rates; (2) 1-month and 3-month libor; and (3) the fed funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans, variable rate available-for-sale securities and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. deposit pricing in the simulation model is generally associated with changes in short-term interest rates. however, modeled assumptions may differ from our actual pricing behavior in a rising rate environment depending on the market environment and business conditions. the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points. change in interest rates (basis points) (dollars in thousands) estimated estimated increase/(decrease) in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii eve amount percent nii amount percent december 31, 2015: +200 $ 6,007,061 $ 1,783,649 42.2 % $ 1,454,889 $ 268,242 22.6 % +100 5,166,410 942,998 22.3 1,318,584 131,937 11.1 4,223,412 1,186,647 -100 4,350,421 127,009 3.0 1,127,223 (59,424 ) (5.0 ) -200 4,548,417 325,005 7.7 1,095,854 (90,793 ) (7.7 ) december 31, 2014: +200 $ 6,201,773 $ 1,237,900 24.9 % $ 1,242,321 $ 223,059 21.9 % +100 5,598,887 635,014 12.8 1,124,643 105,381 10.3 4,963,873 1,019,262 -100 4,927,749 (36,124 ) (0.7 ) 979,982 (39,280 ) (3.9 ) -200 5,119,636 155,763 3.1 953,556 (65,706 ) (6.4 ) 87 table of contents economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes that we anticipate or may make to reduce our eve exposure in response to a change in market interest rates as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. the interest rate risk we are exposed to includes changes in the shape of the yield curve (yield curve risk), fluctuations in asset cash flows (prepayment risk) and differences between specific benchmark interest rates (basis risk). while we believe our model gives us a good understanding of these risks, it is important to note that no model fully captures all risks. the eve simulation assumes varying rates of deposit balance decay depending on the rate scenario. because eve is a discounted cash flow simulation from a specific point in time, the simulation does not include changes in new business volume growth assumptions needed to maintain a static balance sheet size throughout the simulation. the results in the preceding table can be referenced as an estimate of sensitivity to changes in interest rates, but should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results from changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent, the underlying value of assets and liabilities and the net interest income derived from them. our base case eve at december 31, 2015 decreased from december 31, 2014 by $740 million as a result of balance sheet mix changes, as well as yield curve changes. a flattening yield curve due to higher rates at the short end of the yield curve and slightly lower rates at the long end relative to december 31, 2014 resulted in a net negative impact of $187 million on base eve. our liability balances grew by $6.1 billion in 2015, while asset balances grew just $5.3 billion. the balance sheet changes contributed an additional negative $553 million to the change in base eve. eve sensitivity increased in the simulated upward rate shock scenarios primarily due to the growth in non-maturity deposits which constitute the majority of liability balances. in the simulated downward interest rate shock scenarios, eve sensitivity increased due to the flattening yield curve, resulting in the discount rates for non-interest bearing non-maturity deposits hitting floors in these model scenarios. 12-month net interest income simulation our estimated 12-month nii at december 31, 2015 increased from december 31, 2014 by $167 million due to changes in both rates and balance sheet mix. a 25 bps rate increase by the federal open market committee in december 2015 contributed $49 million to the simulated nii forecast. we had $2.4 billion of loan growth in 2015, and the investment portfolio grew by $3.1 billion during that time. non-interest bearing deposit balances grew by $6.3 billion accompanied by a decrease of $1.5 billion in interest-bearing deposits. the net impact of these balance sheet changes contributed an additional $118 million to the base 12-month nii forecast. nii sensitivity increased slightly in the interest rate shock scenarios due to a higher proportion of floating and variable rate assets relative to fixed rate assets at december 31, 2015 as compared to december 31, 2014. in the simulated downward rate shock scenarios, sensitivity also increased as variable rate loan and investment securities moved away from their floors due to the 25 bps rate increase. the simulation model used in the above analysis embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below 0.0%. our 12-month static balance sheet nii simulation assumes different rates of deposit balance decay for each interest rate scenario based on a long-term historical deposit study of our clients. in the static scenarios, loan and deposit runoff is replaced as needed to maintain a constant balance sheet. the deposit decay assumptions may change in future periods based on management discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 88 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory and strategic and reputational risks. the factors described below are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing of the risks we face and are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks and uncertainties that we have not identified as material, or of we currently are not aware, may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profiles of our clients vary across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for early- 20 table of contents stage and mid-stage privately-held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations, primarily within the technology and life science and healthcare industries. consequently, repayment of these loans is often dependent upon receipt by our borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity or "exit" event. although many emerging companies have been able to obtain liquidity through venture capital-backed financing as well as various other exit opportunities at relatively high valuations in recent years, there can be no assurance that they will be able to continue to obtain funding at current valuation levels, if at all. if current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down, or valuations may drop in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. in such case, investors may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, if at all, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers' ability to repay their loans to us. in addition, because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the technology, and life science and healthcare industry sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for their securities, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property and other intangible assets, which are difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. as a result, even if a loan is secured, we may not be able to fully recover the amounts owed to us, if at all. in addition, a meaningful portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of our larger loans, which could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. as of december 31, 2016, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled $8.9 billion, or 44.4 percent, of our portfolio. these larger loans have over time represented, and continue to represent, an increasingly greater portion of our total loan portfolio. they include capital call lines of credit to our private equity and venture capital clients, as well as other loans made to our later-stage and larger corporate clients, and may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, or cash flow. additionally, we have continued our efforts to grow our loan portfolio by agenting or arranging larger syndicated credit facilities and participating in larger syndicates agented by other financial institutions as well as making sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings typically sponsored by our private equity clients. in those arrangements where we do not act as the lead syndicate agent, our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is typically limited to our participation interest. further, the repayment of financing arrangements we enter into with our clients may be dependent on the financial condition or ability of third parties to meet their payment obligations to our clients. for example, we enter into formula-based financing arrangements that are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. we also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks and enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. we also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers' revenues from third parties. further, in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which are dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. in recent periods, we have increased the levels of these capital call lines of credit. ultimately, these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us. we also lend to private equity and venture capital professionals primarily through svb private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. in certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulties. while such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in any borrower meeting his or her financial commitments. in addition, we lend to premium wineries and vineyards through svb wine. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment, as well as overall grape supply which may be adversely affected by poor weather, heavy rains, flooding, drought, earthquake or other natural conditions. based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - consolidated financial condition under part ii, item 7 of this report. 21 table of contents our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. although we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses that uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent upon the subjective experience and judgment of our management. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent with our credit quality assessments. moreover, government regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we make in determining the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. these regulators may conclude that changes are necessary, which could impact our overall credit portfolio. such changes could result in, among other things, modifications to our methodology or models, reclassification or downgrades of our loans, increases in our allowance for loan losses or other credit costs, imposition of new or more stringent concentration limits, restrictions in our lending activities and/or recognition of further losses. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. as a result, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments reflected off our balance sheet and a significant portion of these commitments ultimately expire without being drawn upon. see note 18 "off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees and other commitments" of the "notes to the consolidated financial statements" under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. however, the actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements. for example, our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments in a challenging economic environment due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit through other channels, or the limited availability of financings from private equity or venture capital firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our private equity and venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing difficulties, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. further, although we have established a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, the level of the reserve is determined by a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. while the reserve is susceptible to significant changes, it is primarily based on credit commitments outstanding less the amounts that have been funded, the amount of the unfunded portion that we expect to be utilized in the future, credit quality of the loan credit commitments, and management's estimates and judgment. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market and liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, caused by sustained periods of low market interest rates or changes in our clients' preferences for interest-bearing deposit products in periods of rising interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a significant portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and internal borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets such as loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and therefore our interest rate spread, can be affected by the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet, as well as a variety of external factors beyond our control such as competition, 22 table of contents inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of various governmental bodies. for example, changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the federal funds, national prime, the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not generally produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates are nevertheless likely to cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. in response to the last global economic recession, the u.s. federal reserve and other central banking institutions took monetary policy actions, including the utilization of quantitative easing, to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. in december 2015, the federal reserve raised interest rates for the first time since 2007. more recently, the federal reserve raised interest rates again in december 2016 and may institute further changes in the future. increases, or sustained periods of increases, in interest rates may result in a change in the mix of non-interest and interest bearing accounts, and the level of off-balance sheet market-based investment preferred by our clients, which may have a negative impact on our interest rate spread. however, if interest rates do not rise, low rates could constrain our interest rate spread and may adversely affect our business forecasts. in addition, changes in the method of determining libor or other reference rates, or uncertainty related to such potential changes, may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread. any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. the primary source of liquidity for the bank is client deposits. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the federal funds market supplement our liquidity. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. for example, factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, a reduction in our credit rating, any damage to our reputation or any other decrease in depositor or investor confidence in our creditworthiness and business. our access to liquidity could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any such event or failure to manage our liquidity effectively could affect our competitive position, increase our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on deposits, limit our access to the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity fund investments and direct equity investment portfolio gains depend upon the performance of our portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and merger and acquisition markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science and healthcare industries. we have also made investments through svb financial and our svb capital family of funds in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value or are impacted by changes in fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. however, the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the portfolio companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information from these companies, market volatility and interest rate factors and legal and contractual restrictions. moreover, the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments also often depend on factors beyond our control. in addition to those mentioned above, such factors include the level of public offering and merger and acquisition or other exit activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell our equity positions (including the expiration of any lock-up agreements) and the timing of any actual dispositions. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, their fair market value might increase or decrease materially from period to period, 23 table of contents and the net proceeds ultimately realized upon disposition might be materially different than the then-current recorded fair market value. in addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of our total investment portfolio. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. see note 13 "derivative financial instruments" of the "notes to the consolidated financial statements" under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. public equity offerings, mergers and acquisitions or a slowdown in private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and merger and acquisition activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our private equity and venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of shares available for grant in connection with such equity awards pursuant to our incentive compensation plans is generally subject to stockholder approval. our grants are also subject to our internal equity burn rate limit. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber-attacks. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we remain at risk for attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents. moreover, in recent periods, large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us, which could subject us to potential liability. 24 table of contents information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on our networks and systems, as well as those of our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees and third-party contractors. in addition, svb provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks. under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. furthermore, svb's cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third party processing services. as such, svb is subject to risk from data breaches of such third-party's information systems or their payment processors, including due to resulting unauthorized card use. such a data security breach could compromise svb account information, cause losses on card accounts and increase litigation costs. svb may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. we also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through svb's systems, as well as financial analytics services. in the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. in the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages. in addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. the more recent advent of state-sponsored or terrorist-sponsored efforts to hack or disable information technology systems increases risks, since the motivation may be for geopolitical as much as for financial gain. although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; force majeure claims by us or critical suppliers; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability - any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. our information technology systems, people and internal business processes are critical to our operations and future growth. our systems and processes need to be sufficiently scalable to operate effectively, and we need to have the appropriate talent to support our business. as a result, we continue to invest in technology and more automated solutions in order to optimize the efficiency of our core operational and administrative infrastructure. in the absence of having effective automated solutions, we may rely on manual processes which may be more prone to error. moreover, as we evolve, we may further install or implement new systems and processes or otherwise replace, upgrade or make other modifications to our existing systems and processes. these changes could be costly and require significant investment in the training of our employees and other third-party partners, as well as impose substantial demands on management time. if we do not implement new initiatives or utilize new technologies effectively or in accordance with regulatory requirements, or if our people (including outsourced business partners) are not appropriately trained or developed or do not perform their functions properly, we could experience business interruptions or other system failures which, among other things, could result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, loss of clients, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions or damage to our reputation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 table of contents business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. for example, our corporate headquarters and some of our critical business offices are located in california, near major earthquake faults. an earthquake or other event of disaster could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. we and other financial institutions generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might become vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and clients. although we have implemented a business continuity management program that we continue to enhance on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the program will adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of california, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a significant portion of our client borrowers, including our premium winery and vineyard clients, our private bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients, are located in or have offices in the state of california, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property. if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire, drought or other natural disaster in california or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as the united kingdom, hong kong, china, israel and india, to provide services to us and our clients or otherwise act as partners in our business activities in a variety of ways, including through the provision of key components of our business infrastructure. we expect these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities in a manner that reflects positively on our brand and business. although we manage exposure to such third party risk through a variety of means [including the performance of due diligence and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance], there can be no assurance these efforts will be effective. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational disruptions, increased expenditures, regulatory actions in which we may be held responsible for the actions of third parties, damage to our reputation and the loss of clients, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products we have arranged. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. any losses arising from such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other information relating to their business or financial condition. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports or other certifications of their auditors or accountants. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. if we rely on materially 26 table of contents misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information in evaluating the credit-worthiness or other risk-profiles of our clients or counterparties, we could be subject to loan losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or experience other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, is expensive and requires significant management attention. moreover, as we continue to grow, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amid dynamic regulatory and other guidance. failure to implement effective controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. if we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from the nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation. we face risks associated with international operations. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. we currently have international offices in the united kingdom, israel, hong kong and china, including a joint-venture bank in china. we further plan to expand our operations and business activities in some of our current international markets, as well as expand our business beyond those markets, including in germany and canada. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations; risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners through joint ventures, strategic arrangements or other partnerships; and, other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, the incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, data security or transfer risks, cultural differences, political and economic risks such as uncertainty created by the approval of an advisory referendum by a majority of voters in the united kingdom to the leave the european union in june 2016, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks such as fluctuation in the value of the euro and chinese yuan (renminbi). these risks could hinder our ability, or the ability of our local partners, to service our clients effectively, and adversely affect the success of our international operations, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, privacy laws, economic and trade sanctions requirements and other foreign laws and regulations. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the cfpb, and the dbo, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise 27 table of contents affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time, result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums, and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. further, the stringency of the federal bank prudential regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size grows. in particular, under the dodd-frank act and current federal reserve regulations, certain enhanced prudential standards will apply to us if we reach or exceed $50 billion in total consolidated assets. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. furthermore, following the 2008 financial crisis, the basel committee adopted additional capital, leverage and liquidity standards under the basel accord (known as basel iii ), and has since proposed additional standards. the federal reserve has also adopted regulations that generally align with these international standards, and have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously in place. such requirements also include limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executives if certain minimum capital requirements are not maintained. the federal reserve also has adopted certain stress testing requirements, the results of which we are required to submit to the federal reserve and to disclose to the public. in addition, depending on the results of the stress tests, we could be required to raise additional capital or take certain other actions. additionally, the federal reserve board, fdic and occ have announced their intentions to issue additional cybersecurity regulations that, when adopted, may require us to implement specific measures to enhance our cybersecurity controls, policies and procedures. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to the volcker rule, which limits certain trading and investment activities by banking entities and has required us to modify our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship activities. the volcker rule restricts, among other things, proprietary trading activities by banking entities as well as their ability to sponsor or invest in certain privately offered funds, including certain venture capital, hedge and private equity funds. although we do not believe that we engage in any proprietary trading that is prohibited under the volcker rule, certain of our historical venture capital fund investment and sponsorship businesses and activities are affected by the rule. in particular, the volcker rule restricts or limits us from sponsoring or having ownership interests in covered funds including venture capital and private equity funds. under this rule, we will have to wind-down, transfer, divest or otherwise ensure the termination or expiration of any prohibited interests prior to the end of the applicable conformance period. in general, we believe we conformed our activities to these restrictions by july 21, 2015; however, certain legacy investments and relationships are subject to an extended conformance period that ends in july 2017. the federal reserve may extend the conformance deadline for up to an additional five years, until july 2022, for investments that are considered illiquid. although we have applied for the maximum extension available to us, there can be no assurance that we will be granted the extension we have sought. as a result, we may be required to divest our prohibited interests within a short period of time which may result in sales at possibly distressed, or otherwise less than expected, levels. additionally, any failure to divest prohibited interests as required may result in regulatory actions against us, including being subject to increased regulatory capital requirements and/or additional regulatory restrictions. we estimate that our total venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be prohibited covered fund interests had an aggregate carrying value of approximately $194 million (and an aggregate fair value of approximately $300 million ) as of december 31, 2016 . these covered fund interests are comprised of interests attributable, solely, to us in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities. the volcker rule restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio and results of operations. the actual impact from these restrictions will be dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain regulatory extensions, our ability to sell the investments, our carrying value at the time of any sale, the actual sales price realized, the timing of such sales, and any additional regulatory guidance or interpretations of the volcker rule. if we continue to grow and our total consolidated assets reach or exceed $50 billion, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including enhanced prudential standards, required by the dodd-frank act and regulations adopted by the federal reserve applicable to large bank holding companies. as of december 31, 2016 , our total consolidated assets were $44.7 billion . under the federal reserve's enhanced prudential standard regulations, svb financial would become subject to more stringent prudential standards if, whether as a result of organic growth, potential future acquisitions or otherwise, we averaged total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more at the end of a four-quarter period. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the more stringent prudential standards include requirements related to 28 table of contents risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, supervisory capital stress testing, single counterparty credit exposure limits, and early remediation - all of which require appropriate resources and planning. the dodd-frank act further permits, but does not require, the federal reserve to apply enhanced prudential standards to large bank holding companies in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures . if we become subject to such enhanced prudential standards, we will face more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increased compliance costs. for example, if we are subject to ccar, the federal reserve may object to, or otherwise not respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions or stress test results, and we may be limited as to how we utilize our capital, including with respect to common stock dividends and stock repurchases. in addition, if we become subject to the federal reserve's and the fdic's resolution planning rules requiring us to submit plans for an orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, and those agencies jointly determine that our resolution plan is not credible, and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the federal reserve and the fdic may jointly impose on svb financial or our subsidiaries more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or require the divestment of assets or operations. further, under the modified lcr rule, we would be required to measure specified unencumbered high-quality liquid assets against our expected net cash outflows, using the methodologies prescribed by the rule. as a result of the rule's application, svb financial may be required to manage our holdings of high-quality liquid assets at levels beyond what we believe we need operationally in order to manage liquidity effectively. additionally, such an increase may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations since high-quality liquid assets tend to carry lower yields. see business-supervision and regulation-enhanced prudential standards, under this part i, item 1, for a more detailed description of the various requirements which may become applicable to us. we face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the bank secrecy act, other anti-money laundering and anti-bribery statutes and regulations, and u.s. economic and trade sanctions. the bank secrecy act, the usa patriot act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. the federal financial crimes enforcement network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with state and federal banking regulators, as well as the u.s. department of justice, drug enforcement administration, and internal revenue service. we also must comply with u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and the foreign corrupt practices act, and we, like other financial institutions, are subject to increased scrutiny for compliance with these requirements. we maintain policies, procedures and systems [designed to detect and deter prohibited financing activities], however if these controls were deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including civil fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. in addition, any failure to effectively maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious reputational consequences for us. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, finra and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, svb asset management and svb securities. these regulations are highly complex, and if we were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws and regulations governing financial institutions and broker-dealers, these regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring us to maintain higher insurance levels, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling us or any of our employees from the securities business. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. adverse results from litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. while we have not recognized a material accrual liability for any lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation 29 table of contents and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or that judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. further, adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. moreover, even if we prevail in such actions, litigation and investigations can be costly and time-consuming, and often risks diverting the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. changes in legislation, regulation and government policy resulting from the 2016 u.s. presidential and congressional elections may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. the recent presidential and congressional elections in the united states could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, u.s. legislation, regulation and government policy, which could potentially lead to significant changes in international legislation, regulation or government policy. while it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state, federal or international level could significantly impact our business and financial condition, how we operate, the industries in which we serve or compete, or our clients. we are currently unable to predict whether reform discussions will meaningfully change existing legislative and regulatory environments relevant for our business, or if any such changes would have a net positive or negative impact on our business. to the extent that such changes have a negative impact on us or the industries relevant to us, including as a result of such related uncertainty, these changes may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our holding company, svb financial, relies on warrant income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: warrant income, investment distributions and, to the extent declared, cash dividends paid by its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these sources generate cash which is used by svb financial to pay operating and borrowing costs and, to the extent authorized or declared, fund dividends to stockholders and stock repurchase programs. any income derived from those financial instruments is subject to a variety of factors as discussed in the credit risks portion of this risk factors section. moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. in addition, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a liquidation or reorganization of any of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. anti-takeover provisions and federal laws, particularly those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price. as a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the change in bank control act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either the federal reserve must approve or after receiving notice, must not object to any person or entity acquiring control (as determined under the federal reserve's standards) of a bank holding company, such as svb financial, or a state member bank, such as the bank. in addition, dbo approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the bank. moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, any of these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. 30 table of contents strategic, reputational and other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses, or to the extent we establish internal concentration limits to mitigate such risk, lower revenues or a slow-down in growth. concentration of risk stemming from our focus on certain markets or segments, including those by client industry, life-cycle stage, size and geography, increases the potential for significant losses, or may result in lower revenues or slower growth, if we choose to limit growth in certain markets or segments to mitigate concentration risk. while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated within the following general industry niches: technology, life science and healthcare, private equity and venture capital and premium wine. in particular, our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software and internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. our life science and healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. many of our client companies are also concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. we take deposits from these clients and are also continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and to make larger loans. in addition, growth prospects and our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may lead to an increase our concentration risk. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities as well as certain types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable to our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to early-stage and mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, corporate investors, crowd-funding and other evolving sources of capital. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors or other funding sources. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of public equity offerings or merger and acquisition activity, primarily among companies within the technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science/healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could also reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of our new clients and investor financial support to our existing clients could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth. we compete with other banks as well as specialty and diversified financial services companies and investment and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are and which may offer a broader range of lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, and other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete with other alternative and more specialized lenders, such as online marketplace lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators and processors or other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. such competitors may focus their marketing efforts on industry sectors which we serve and for example, seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. we may be forced to accept less attractive credit, pricing and other investment terms if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. 31 table of contents our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. in particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. as a result, we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards as well as introduce new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. we are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, are experimental in nature. for example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience or where legal and regulatory requirements are less certain than in the united states. we are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems. given our evolving geographic and product diversification, and our innovative product solutions, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputational and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks. our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new internally-developed growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and other actors in the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business. an ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences. we have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, 32 table of contents among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and, reputational risks. our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. in addition, our board of directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. however, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. if our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in addition, if we grow to total consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater, we will become subject to more stringent risk management requirements that could increase our compliance costs and require us to further enhance our risk management framework and practices. see the section "business-supervision and regulation-enhanced prudential standards" under this part i, item 1. we rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and result of operations, and managing risk. however, all models have certain limitations. for example, our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may not capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect the changing environment. further, even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. although we employ strategies to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models, they may not be effective or fully reliable. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we operate and ultimately cause planning failures or the reporting of incorrect information to our regulators. any such occurrence or the perception of such occurrence by our regulators, investors or clients could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial conditions. our capital stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. in accordance with the dodd-frank act and the federal reserve's regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests. the results of our capital stress tests may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions under certain circumstances. our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. these models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. in addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay the possibility of our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends. we could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations. we are subject to the income tax laws of the u.s., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. these tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income. in particular, u.s. tax laws and regulations may continue to change from time-to-time. while impossible to predict, governments' need for additional revenue may lead to continued proposals to change tax rules in ways that could increase our effective tax rate. in addition, these changes could include a widening of the corporate tax base by including earnings from international operations that are not currently required to be included. such changes to the tax laws could have a material impact on our income tax expense. 33 table of contents the price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. among the factors that could affect our stock price are: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors; actions by institutional stockholders; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or "exit" activities of companies in the industries we serve; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. the trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 92 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities, which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant compared to interest rate sensitive risks and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the market valuation and 12-month forward-looking earnings sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our fixed income securities portfolio, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform a sensitivity analysis on the economic value of equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of changes in market interest rates on our economic value of equity ("eve"). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of changes in market interest rates on our net interest income ("nii") assuming a static balance sheet as of the period-end reporting date. applying a static balance sheet assumption means that the size and composition of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities remains the same throughout the simulation horizon. variations in cash flows from asset and liability balances that are sensitive to the level of interest rates are replaced with balances of similar characteristics and at interest rates consistent with each specific simulation. changes in market interest rates that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following: (i) national prime and svb prime rates; (ii) 1-month and 3-month libor; and (iii) the fed funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans, variable rate investment securities and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. additionally, deposit pricing generally follows the direction of overall changes in short-term interest rates but not in the same proportion. generally, modeled pricing changes on interest-bearing deposits are assumed to be less than one-half of the change in short-term market rates. for the period ended december 31, 2016, an assumption change was applied to the eve simulation model for the discount spreads applied to our loan balances. prior to this change, discount spread assumptions were derived utilizing the historical data of new loans that had originated in the previous month. the new methodology derives loan discount spread assumptions using a historical rolling six-month average of new loan originations. the assumption change produced a lower overall discount spread on our loan balances at december 31, 2016, ultimately resulting in a higher base case eve of $453 million and a lower base case estimated nii of $2 million, as compared to the respective base cases as derived under the prior methodology. we believe the new methodology produces a discount spread assumption that is more stable from period to period and better represents the overall market for our loan balances. this assumption change did not have a significant impact on nii sensitivity results, nor did it substantially change the eve sensitivity profile. the impact of this modeling change was primarily to the overall level of eve. 92 table of contents the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points ("bps") at december 31, 2016 , presented under both the current and prior assumption methodologies for comparative purposes, and at december 31, 2015 , as previously reported: change in interest rates (basis points) (dollars in thousands) estimated estimated increase/(decrease) in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii eve amount percent nii amount percent december 31, 2016: (current assumptions) +200 $ 7,435,607 $ 2,074,881 38.7 % $ 1,628,400 $ 376,020 30.0 % +100 6,464,046 1,103,320 20.6 1,439,468 187,088 14.9 5,360,726 1,252,380 -100 5,049,829 (310,897 ) (5.8 ) 1,191,168 (61,212 ) (4.9 ) -200 5,380,594 19,868 0.4 1,154,914 (97,466 ) (7.8 ) december 31, 2016: (prior assumptions) +200 $ 7,012,237 $ 2,104,700 42.9 % $ 1,630,901 $ 376,066 30.0 % +100 6,026,634 1,119,097 22.8 1,441,940 187,105 14.9 4,907,537 1,254,835 -100 4,574,485 (333,052 ) (6.8 ) 1,193,621 (61,214 ) (4.9 ) -200 4,883,684 (23,853 ) (0.5 ) 1,157,367 (97,468 ) (7.8 ) december 31, 2015: +200 $ 6,007,061 $ 1,783,649 42.2 % $ 1,454,889 $ 268,242 22.6 % +100 5,166,410 942,998 22.3 1,318,584 131,937 11.1 4,223,412 1,186,647 -100 4,350,421 127,009 3.0 1,127,223 (59,424 ) (5.0 ) -200 4,548,417 325,005 7.7 1,095,854 (90,793 ) (7.7 ) economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes that we anticipate or may make to reduce our eve exposure in response to a change in market interest rates as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk and basis risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be presented as precise indicators of actual results stemming from changes in market interest rates. it follows that the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our base case eve as of december 31, 2016 increased from december 31, 2015 by $1.1 billion as compared to december 31, 2015, driven primarily by the change in our balance sheet composition. at december 31, 2016, as compared to december 31, 2015, total loan balances increased by $3.2 billion primarily in variable-rate loans, while total fixed income securities decreased by $4.1 billion primarily due to portfolio sales and maturities. additionally, total deposits decreased by $0.2 billion and cash and cash equivalent balances increased by $1.0 billion. marginally higher libor rates in the 3- to 12-month term points continue to drive a relatively flat yield curve compared to december 31, 2015. these higher rates, along with the growth in variable-rate loans contributed to a $160 million increase in eve sensitivity in the +100 bps rate shock scenario. eve sensitivity in the -100 and -200 bps rate shock scenarios decreased $438 million and $305 million, respectively. changes in these scenarios can be attributed to the increase in the yield curve described above, which causes the discount curves for loans and deposits to hit fewer floors as compared to the curve as of december 31, 2015. this allows more of the impact from a downward rate shock to flow through the valuation. 93 table of contents 12-month net interest income simulation our estimated 12-month nii forecast at december 31, 2016 increased from december 31, 2015 by $66 million , primarily due to the change in balance sheet composition previously noted in the eve section above. a larger portion of higher-yielding, variable rate loans relative to lower-yield fixed income securities resulted in an increase in estimated 12-month nii. as rates rise, the proportionately greater amounts of variable rate loans are expected to benefit our base 12-month nii projections. in addition, the 12-month nii simulations include repricing assumptions on our interest bearing deposit products which are applied at our discretion based on client needs and our overall funding mix. repricing of interest bearing deposits impacts estimated noninterest expense. as noted previously, repricing deposit rates are generally assumed to be less than one-half of the amount of simulated changes in short-term market interest rates. nii sensitivity at december 31, 2016 in the +100 and +200 bps interest rate shock scenarios increased $55 million and $108 million, respectively, as compared to december 31, 2015. these changes are due primarily to the changing composition of the balance sheet as noted above. specifically, a relative increase in variable rate loans, coupled with a higher proportion of non-interest bearing deposit balances is expected to result in an increased nii in a rising rate environment. the simulation model used in the above analysis embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below 0.0%. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates for each interest rate scenario based on a historical deposit study of our clients. these assumptions may change in future periods based on management discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 94 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory and strategic and reputational risks. the factors described below are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing of the risks we face and are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks and uncertainties that we have not identified as material, or of we currently are not aware, may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income, increase net losses, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profiles of our clients vary across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for early-stage and mid-stage privately-held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations, primarily within the technology and life science and healthcare industries. consequently, repayment of these loans is often dependent upon receipt by our borrowers of additional financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity or "exit" event. in recent periods, liquidity levels have been healthy and have improved. many companies have been able to obtain liquidity through venture capital-backed financing as well as various other exit opportunities at relatively high valuations. however, there can be no assurance that they will be able to continue to obtain funding at current valuation levels, if at all. if current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down, or valuations may drop in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. in such case, investors may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, if at all, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers' ability to repay their loans to us. in addition, because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the technology, and life science and healthcare industry sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for their securities, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property and other intangible assets, which are difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. as a result, even if a loan is secured, we may not be able to fully recover the amounts owed to us, if at all. in addition, a meaningful portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of our larger loans, which could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. as of december 31, 2017, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled $10.5 billion, or 45.1 percent, of our portfolio. these larger loans have over time represented, and continue to represent, an increasingly greater portion of our total loan portfolio. they include capital call lines of credit to our private equity and venture capital clients, as well as other loans made to our later-stage and larger corporate clients, and may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, or cash flow. additionally, we have continued our efforts to grow our loan portfolio by agenting or arranging larger syndicated credit facilities and participating in larger syndicates agented by other financial institutions as well as making sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings typically sponsored by our private equity clients. in those arrangements where we do not act as the lead syndicate agent, our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is typically limited to our participation interest. further, the repayment of financing arrangements we enter into with our clients may be dependent on the financial condition or ability of third parties to meet their payment obligations to our clients. for example, we enter into formula-based financing arrangements that are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. we also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks and enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. we also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers' revenues from third parties. further, in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which are dependent 21 table of contents on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. in recent periods, we have increased the levels of these capital call lines of credit. these third parties may not be able to meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us which, ultimately, could have an adverse impact on us. we also lend to private equity and venture capital professionals primarily through svb private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. in certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulties. while such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in any borrower meeting his or her financial commitments. in addition, we lend to premium wineries and vineyards through svb wine. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment, as well as overall grape supply which may be adversely affected by poor weather, heavy rains, flooding, droughts, fires, wildfires, earthquakes or other natural conditions. based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - consolidated financial condition under part ii, item 7 of this report. our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. although we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses that uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent upon the subjective experience and judgment of our management. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent with our credit quality assessments. moreover, banking regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we make in determining the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. these regulators may conclude that changes are necessary, which could impact our overall credit portfolio. such changes could result in, among other things, modifications to our methodology or models, reclassification or downgrades of our loans, increases in our allowance for loan losses or other credit costs, imposition of new or more stringent concentration limits, restrictions in our lending activities and/or recognition of further losses. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. as a result, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments reflected off our balance sheet and a significant portion of these commitments ultimately expire without being drawn upon. see note 19 off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees and other commitments of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. however, the actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements. for example, our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments in a challenging economic environment due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit through other channels, or the limited availability of financings from private equity or venture capital firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our private equity and venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing difficulties, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. 22 table of contents further, although we have established a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, the level of the reserve is determined by a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. while the reserve is susceptible to significant changes, it is primarily based on credit commitments outstanding less the amounts that have been funded, the amount of the unfunded portion that we expect to be utilized in the future, credit quality of the loan credit commitments, and management's estimates and judgment. there can be no assurance that our allowance for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the allowance for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market and liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, caused by sustained periods of low market interest rates or changes in our clients' preferences for interest-bearing deposit products in periods of rising interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a significant portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and internal borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets such as loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. our interest rate spread can be affected by the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet, as well as a variety of external factors beyond our control that affect interest rate levels, such as competition, inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of various governmental bodies. for example, changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the federal funds, national prime, the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not generally produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates are nevertheless likely to cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. in response to the last global economic recession, the u.s. federal reserve and other central banking institutions took monetary policy actions, including the utilization of quantitative easing and created and maintained a low interest rate environment. over the last few years, interest rates have increased. since december 2015, the federal reserve has raised interest rates five times and may institute further changes in the future. increases, or sustained periods of increases, in interest rates may result in a change in the mix of non-interest and interest bearing accounts, and the level of off-balance sheet market-based investment preferred by our clients, which may also impact our interest rate spread. if interest rates decline or do not continue to rise, low rates could constrain our interest rate spread and may adversely affect our business forecasts. in addition, changes in the method of determining libor or other reference rates, or uncertainty related to such potential changes, may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread. any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. the primary source of liquidity for the bank is client deposits. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the federal funds market supplement our liquidity. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. for example, factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, a reduction in our credit rating, any damage to our reputation or any other decrease in depositor or investor confidence in our creditworthiness and business. our access to liquidity could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any such event or failure to manage our liquidity effectively could affect our competitive position, increase our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on deposits, limit our access to the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 23 table of contents our equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity fund investments and direct equity investment portfolio gains depend upon the performance of our portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and merger and acquisition markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science and healthcare industries subject to applicable regulatory limits, we have also made investments through svb financial and our svb capital family of funds in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value or are impacted by changes in fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. however, the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the portfolio companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information from these companies, market volatility and interest rate factors and legal and contractual restrictions. moreover, the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments also often depend on factors beyond our control. in addition to those mentioned above, such factors include the level of public offering and merger and acquisition or other exit activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell our equity positions (including the expiration of any lock-up agreements) and the timing of any actual dispositions. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, their fair market value might increase or decrease materially from period to period, and the net proceeds ultimately realized upon disposition might be materially different than the then-current recorded fair market value. in addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of our total investment portfolio. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. see note 13 derivative financial instruments of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. increase in public equity offerings, mergers and acquisitions or a slowdown in private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings, financings, and merger and acquisition activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our private equity and venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of shares available for grant in connection with such equity awards pursuant to our incentive compensation plans is generally subject to stockholder approval. our grants are also subject to our 24 table of contents internal equity burn rate limit. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that could be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering, malfeasance, and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us, our clients or third party partners, denial or degradation of service attacks, malware, or other cyber-attacks. sources of attacks vary and may include hackers, disgruntled employees or vendors, organized crime, terrorists, foreign governments, corporate espionage and activists. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we remain at risk for attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents. these attempts can be, and in some cases have been, directed at us (including our employees, executives or directors), as well as our vendors or other third party partners. moreover, in recent periods, large corporations (including financial institutions and retail companies), as well as u.s. governmental agencies, have suffered significant data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us, which could subject us to potential liability. additionally, state-sponsored or terrorist-sponsored efforts to hack or disable information technology systems increases risks, since the motivation may be for geopolitical as much as for financial gain. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on our networks and systems, as well as those of our clients and certain of our third-party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees and third-party contractors. in addition, svb provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks. under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. furthermore, svb's cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third-party processing services. as such, svb is subject to risk from data breaches of such third-party's information systems or their payment processors, for reasons including unauthorized card use. such a data security breach could compromise svb's account information, cause losses on card accounts and increase litigation costs. svb may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. we also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through svb's systems, as well as financial analytics services. in the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. in the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages. in addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. the forms, methods, and sophistication of fraud, security breaches, cyber-attacks and other similar criminal activity continue to evolve, and as we evolve and grow our business, especially in new businesses or geographies, we may be unable to foresee future risks. although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, fraudulent activities, breaches of security or cyber-attacks could result in: financial losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; loss or exposure of our confidential data or information; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; loss of personnel; disruption to our business; force majeure claims by us or critical suppliers; our inability to grow our 25 table of contents online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability --- any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our risk mitigation strategies and internal controls, including risk assessment policies and procedures, testing, backup and redundancy systems, incident response plans, training, and authentication or encryption tools, may not be effective against defending against fraud, security breaches or cyber-attacks. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. our information technology systems, people and internal business processes are critical to our operations and future growth. our systems may be subject to service outages from time to time due to various reasons, including infrastructure failures, interruptions due to system upgrades or malware removal, employee error or malfeasance, or other force majeure-related reasons, which could cause business disruption. additionally, our systems and processes need to be sufficiently scalable to operate effectively, and we need to have the appropriate talent to support our business. as a result, we continue to invest in technology and more automated solutions in order to optimize the efficiency of our core operational and administrative infrastructure. in the absence of having effective automated solutions, we may rely on manual processes which may be more prone to error. moreover, as we evolve, we may further install or implement new systems and processes or otherwise replace, upgrade or make other modifications to our existing systems and processes. these changes could be costly and require significant investment in the training of our employees and other third-party partners, as well as impose substantial demands on management time. if we do not implement new initiatives or utilize new technologies effectively or in accordance with regulatory requirements, or if our people (including outsourced business partners) are not appropriately trained or developed or do not perform their functions properly, we could experience business interruptions or other system failures which, among other things, could result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, loss of clients, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions or damage to our reputation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. for example, our corporate headquarters and some of our critical business offices are located in california, near major earthquake faults. an earthquake or other disaster could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. we and other financial institutions generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might become vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and clients. although we have implemented a business continuity management program that we continue to enhance on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the program will adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of california, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a significant portion of our client borrowers, including our premium winery and vineyard clients, our svb private bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients, are located in or have offices in the state of california, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property, including wildfires in 2017 that impacted regions of northern california where some of our premium wine clients are located. if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire, drought or other natural disaster in california or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. 26 table of contents we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as the united kingdom, hong kong, china, israel and india, to provide services to us and our clients or otherwise act as partners in our business activities in a variety of ways, including through the provision of key components of our business infrastructure. we expect these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities in a manner that reflects positively on our brand and business. although we manage exposure to such third party risk through a variety of means including the performance of due diligence and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance, there can be no assurance these efforts will be effective. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational disruptions, increased expenditures, regulatory actions in which we may be held responsible for the actions of third parties, damage to our reputation and the loss of clients, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products we have arranged. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. any losses arising from such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other information relating to their business or financial condition. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports or other certifications of their auditors or accountants. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information in evaluating the credit-worthiness or other risk-profiles of our clients or counterparties, we could be subject to loan losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or experience other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under an alternative policy or method. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations of the sec, can be costly and require significant management attention. as we continue to grow, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amidst dynamic regulatory and other guidance. failure to maintain effective controls or implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. if we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement costly and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also 27 table of contents face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation. we face risks associated with our current international operations and ongoing international expansion. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. we currently have international offices in the united kingdom, israel, hong kong and china, including a joint-venture bank in china. we further plan to expand our operations and business activities in some of our current international markets, as well as expand our business beyond those markets, including germany and canada. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations; risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners through joint ventures, strategic arrangements or other partnerships; and, other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, the incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, data security or transfer risks, cultural differences, political and economic risks such as uncertainty created by the approval of an advisory referendum by a majority of voters in the united kingdom to the leave the european union in june 2016, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks such as fluctuation in the value of the euro and chinese yuan (renminbi). these risks could hinder our ability, or the ability of our local partners, to service our clients effectively, and adversely affect the success of our international operations, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, privacy laws, economic and trade sanctions requirements and other foreign laws and regulations. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the cfpb, and the dbo, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time, result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums, and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. further, the stringency of the federal bank prudential regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size and international business grows. as one example, under the dodd-frank act and current federal reserve regulations, certain enhanced prudential standards will apply to us if we reach or exceed $50 billion in average total consolidated assets. in addition, federal regulations implementing the advanced approaches capital rules as well as the additional heightened standards noted above apply to banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure (which is a measure of international activity). compliance with any of these additional requirements could require a material investment of resources and lead to other limitations on our business and our ability to expand. further, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. furthermore, following the 2008 financial crisis, the basel committee adopted additional capital, leverage and liquidity standards under basel iii, and has since finalized additional standards. most notably, in december 2017, the basel committee published a set of revisions to its basel iii framework to address perceived weaknesses in the current methodology for calculating risk weighted assets, in particular to increase the risk-sensitivity of the standardized approach and to constrain banking organizations' discretion in modeling their capital requirements under models-based approaches (such as the advanced approaches in the united states). following the adoption of the final standards, the federal reserve, the fdic and the occ announced on december 7, 2017 that they support the conclusion of efforts to reform the international bank capital standards in response to the global financial crisis, and that they would consider how to appropriately apply these revisions to the basel iii reform package in the united states through the standard notice - and-comment rulemaking process . the federal reserve previously has adopted regulations that generally align with international standards, 28 table of contents and have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously in place. such requirements include limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executives if certain minimum capital requirements are not maintained. the federal reserve also has adopted certain stress testing requirements, the results of which we are required to submit to the federal reserve and to disclose to the public. in addition, depending on the results of the stress tests, we could be required to raise additional capital or take certain other actions. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the growth of our business, the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we continue to grow and meet regulatory thresholds that trigger enhanced standards, such as average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more or $10 billion or more in foreign exposures, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including enhanced prudential standards, required by the dodd-frank act and regulations adopted by the federal reserve applicable to large bank holding companies. as of december 31, 2017 , our total consolidated assets were $51.2 billion and we had approximately $6.0 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposures. under the federal reserve's enhanced prudential standard regulations, svb financial would become subject to more stringent prudential standards if, whether as a result of organic growth, potential future acquisitions or otherwise, we averaged total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more at the end of a four-quarter period. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the more stringent prudential standards include requirements related to risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, supervisory capital stress testing, single counterparty credit exposure limits, and early remediation - all of which require appropriate resources and planning. the dodd-frank act further permits, but does not require, the federal reserve to apply enhanced prudential standards to large bank holding companies in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures . further, our international business continues to grow. crossing the advanced approaches thresholds would trigger additional heightened requirements and compliance costs that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. our level of foreign exposures is determined based on our current understanding of applicable regulatory standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations and assumptions, and may be subject to change based on any modifications, clarifications or evolution of these standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations or assumptions. if we become subject to such enhanced prudential standards, we will face more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increased compliance costs. for example, if we are subject to ccar, the federal reserve may object to, or otherwise not respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions or stress test results, and we may be limited as to how we utilize our capital, including with respect to common stock dividends and stock repurchases. in addition, if we become subject to the federal reserve's and the fdic's resolution planning rules requiring us to submit plans for an orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, and those agencies jointly determine that our resolution plan is not credible, and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the federal reserve and the fdic may jointly impose on svb financial or our subsidiaries more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or require the divestment of assets or operations. further, under the lcr rule, we would be required to measure specified unencumbered high-quality liquid assets against our expected net cash outflows, using the methodologies prescribed by the rule. as a result of the rule's application, svb financial may be required to manage our holdings of high-quality liquid assets at levels beyond what we believe we need operationally in order to manage liquidity effectively. additionally, such an increase may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations since high-quality liquid assets tend to carry lower yields. see business-supervision and regulation-enhanced prudential standards, under this part i, item 1, for a more detailed description of the various requirements which may become applicable to us. we face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the bank secrecy act, other anti-money laundering and anti-bribery statutes and regulations, and u.s. economic and trade sanctions. the bank secrecy act, the usa patriot act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. the federal financial crimes enforcement network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with state and federal banking regulators, as well as the u.s. department of justice, drug enforcement administration, and internal revenue service. we also must comply with u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and we, like other financial institutions, are subject to increased scrutiny for compliance with these requirements. we maintain policies, procedures and systems designed to detect and deter prohibited financing activities, however if these controls were deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including civil fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. in addition, any failure to effectively maintain and implement adequate 29 table of contents programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious reputational consequences for us. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, finra and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, svb asset management and svb securities. these regulations are highly complex, and if we were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws and regulations governing financial institutions and broker-dealers, these regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring us to maintain higher insurance levels, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling us or any of our employees from the securities business. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. adverse results from litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. while we have not recognized a material accrual liability for any lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or that judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. further, adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. moreover, even if we prevail in such actions, litigation and investigations can be costly and time-consuming, and often risks diverting the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. our holding company, svb financial, relies on equity warrant assets income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: income from our equity warrant assets and investment securities and, to the extent declared, cash dividends paid by its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these sources generate cash which is used by svb financial to pay operating and borrowing costs and, to the extent authorized or declared, fund dividends to stockholders and stock repurchase programs. any income derived from those financial instruments is subject to a variety of factors as discussed in the credit risks portion of this risk factors section. moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. in addition, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a liquidation or reorganization of any of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. 30 table of contents anti-takeover provisions and federal laws, particularly those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price. as a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the change in bank control act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either the federal reserve must approve or after receiving notice, must not object to any person or entity acquiring control (as determined under the federal reserve's standards) of a bank holding company, such as svb financial, or a state member bank, such as the bank. in addition, dbo approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the bank. moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, any of these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. strategic, reputational and other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses, or to the extent we establish internal concentration limits to mitigate such risk, lower revenues or a slow-down in growth. concentration of risk stemming from our focus on certain markets or segments, including those by client industry, life-cycle stage, size and geography, increases the potential for significant losses, or may result in lower revenues or slower growth, if we choose to limit growth in certain markets or segments to mitigate concentration risk. while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated within the following general industry niches: technology, life science and healthcare, private equity and venture capital and premium wine. in particular, our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software/internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. our life science and healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. many of our client companies are also concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. we take deposits from these clients and are also continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and to make larger loans. in addition, growth prospects and our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may lead to an increase in our concentration risk. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities as well as certain types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable to our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to early-stage and mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, corporate investors, crowd-funding and other evolving sources of capital. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors or other funding sources. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of public equity offerings or merger and acquisition activity, primarily among companies within the technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science/healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could also reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of our new clients and investor financial support to our existing clients could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth. we compete with other banks as well as specialty and diversified financial services companies and investment and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are and which may offer a broader range of lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, and other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete with other alternative and 31 table of contents more specialized lenders, such as online marketplace lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators and processors or other fintech or nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. such competitors may focus their marketing efforts on industry sectors which we serve and for example, seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. we may be forced to accept less attractive credit, pricing and other investment terms if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures and market disruption could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. in particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. as a result, we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards as well as introduce new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. we are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, are experimental in nature. for example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience from a business, legal and/or regulatory perspective. we are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems. we may also serve clients that deal with new or evolving industries or business activities, such as digital currencies. given our evolving geographic and product diversification, and our innovative product solutions, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputational and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks. our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new internally-developed growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 32 table of contents our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and other actors in the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business. an ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences. we have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and reputational risks. our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. in addition, our board of directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. however, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. if our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in addition, if we grow to total average consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater or cross the advanced approaches thresholds, we will become subject to more stringent risk management requirements that could increase our compliance costs and require us to further enhance our risk management framework and practices. see the section "business-supervision and regulation-enhanced prudential standards" under this part i, item 1 of this report. we rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and result of operations, and managing risk. however, all models have certain limitations. for example, our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may not capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect the changing environment. further, even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. although we employ strategies to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models, they may not be effective or fully reliable. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we operate and ultimately cause planning failures or the reporting of incorrect information to our regulators. any such occurrence or the perception of such occurrence by our regulators, investors or clients could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial conditions. our capital stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. in accordance with the dodd-frank act and the federal reserve's regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests. the results of our capital stress tests may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions under certain circumstances. our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. these models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. in addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay the possibility of our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends. 33 table of contents we could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations. we are subject to the income tax laws of the united states, its constituent states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. these tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income. u.s. or international tax laws and regulations may continue to change from time-to-time. in particular, the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcj act ), which became effective as of january 2018, among other things, reduced the federal tax rate for corporation and changed or limited certain tax deductions. while the new tax law is expected to result in overall lower tax expense for the company beginning in 2018, we incurred an increase in our provision for income taxes due to a one-time revaluation of certain tax-related assets to reflect the lower tax rate as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2017. while impossible to predict, future changes to applicable u.s. or international tax rules could subsequently increase our effective tax rate or could otherwise have a material impact on our income tax expense. the price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. among the factors that could affect our stock price are: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors; actions by institutional stockholders; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or "exit" activities of companies in the industries we serve; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. the trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 95 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities, which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk, equity price risk, including the effect of competition on product pricing. while all of these risks are important considerations, all are inherently difficult to predict, and it is equally difficult to assess the impact of each on the overall simulation results. consequently, simulations used to analyze sensitivity of net interest income to interest rate risk will differ from actual results due to differences in the timing, frequency, and magnitude of changes in market rates, the impact of competition, fluctuating business conditions, and the impact of strategies taken by management to mitigate these risks. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the sensitivity of the market valuation on earning assets and funding liabilities and 12-month forward looking net interest income from changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence with relevant metrics included in our interest rate risk policy, which is approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our fixed income securities portfolio, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivatives to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the economic value of our equity and our net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and business strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded within our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in economic value and net interest income relating solely to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position and sensitivity to market rates on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis a specific application of our simulation model involves measurement of the impact of changes in market interest rates on our economic value of equity ( eve ). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items, if any. another application of the simulation model measures the impact of changes in market interest rates on our net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet as of the period-end reporting date. meaning, the size and composition of earning assets and funding liabilities are held constant over the simulation horizon. simulated cash flows during the scenario horizon are assumed to be replaced as they occur, which restores the balance sheet to its original size and composition. more specifically, with respect to earning assets, loan maturities, principal maturities, paydowns and calls on investments are added back as replacement balances as they occur during the simulation horizon. yield and spread assumptions on cash and investment balances reflect current market rates. yield and spread assumptions on loans reflect recent market impacts on product pricing. similarly, we make certain deposit decay rate assumptions on demand deposits and interest bearing deposits, which are replenished to hold the level and mix of funding liabilities constant. changes in market interest rates that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following benchmark indexes: (i) national and svb prime rates, (ii) 1-month and 3-month libor, and (iii) the federal funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans, variable rate investment securities and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. additionally, simulated changes in deposit pricing relative to changes in market rates, commonly referred to as deposit beta, generally follow overall changes in short-term interest rates, although actual changes may lag in terms of timing and magnitude. overall, the assumed weighted deposit beta on interest bearing deposits is approximately 35.0 percent, which means deposit repricing is assumed to be approximately 35.0 percent of a given change in short-term interest rates. this repricing is reflected as a change in interest expense on interest bearing deposit balances. for the year ended december 31, 2017, our results include two key modeling assumption changes relating to our non-maturity deposits and prepayments on outstanding commercial loans. the impact was seen primarily in our eve sensitivity profile and, to a lesser degree, on our nii sensitivity. for non-maturity deposits, the assumed deposit decay rate is greater in current modeled results compared to assumptions used in prior periods. the impact of the change in assumptions in all rate simulations resulted in greater market value sensitivity of deposits and greater eve sensitivity overall. prepayment rate assumptions on commercial loans are also greater in current modeled results compared to assumptions used in prior periods. the impact of the change in assumptions resulted in lower 95 table of contents market value sensitivity on commercial loans but the impact on overall eve sensitivity was minimal in comparison to the overall changes in eve sensitivity. the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points ("bps") at december 31, 2017 and at december 31, 2016 (as revised based on the assumption changes noted above): change in interest rates (basis points) (dollars in thousands) estimated estimated increase/(decrease) in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii eve amount percent nii amount percent december 31, 2017: +200 $ 8,091,107 $ 805,624 11.1 % $ 1,885,885 $ 400,127 26.9 % +100 7,716,066 430,583 5.9 1,683,742 197,984 13.3 7,285,483 1,485,758 -100 6,637,588 (647,895 ) (8.9 ) 1,252,063 (233,695 ) (15.7 ) -200 5,718,401 (1,567,082 ) (21.5 ) 1,108,712 (377,046 ) (25.4 ) december 31, 2016: (as revised) +200 $ 7,601,404 $ 1,129,823 17.5 % $ 1,543,247 $ 365,734 31.1 % +100 7,073,407 601,826 9.3 1,360,356 182,843 15.5 6,471,581 1,177,513 -100 5,765,799 (705,782 ) (10.9 ) 1,075,353 (102,160 ) (8.7 ) -200 4,860,540 (1,611,041 ) (24.9 ) 1,039,903 (137,610 ) (11.7 ) economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates to determine discounting factors on prepared cash flows. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as the composition of earning assets and funding liabilities change (including the impact of changes in the value of interest rate derivatives, if any), as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market conditions, competition or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes in our balance sheet or changes we may make to reduce our eve exposure as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk, basis risk, and yield spread compression, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent our estimate of the underlying value of equity or forecast of nii. our base case eve as of december 31, 2017 increased from december 31, 2016 by $0.8 billion, driven primarily by the change in our balance sheet composition. rising interest rates also impacted this measure, to a lesser extent. at december 31, 2017, as compared to december 31, 2016, total loan balances increased by $3.2 billion primarily in variable-rate loans. total fixed income securities also increased by $2.7 billion due to purchases of longer maturity instruments such as pass-through mortgage-backed securities and municipal debt securities combined with run-off of shorter maturity u.s. treasury securities. additionally, total deposits increased by $5.3 billion. marginally higher libor/swap rates in the 3- to 24-month tenors continue to drive a relatively flat yield curve compared to december 31, 2016. these higher rates, along with changes in balance sheet composition contributed to a $171 million decrease in eve sensitivity in the +100 bps rate shock scenario. eve sensitivity in the -100 and -200 bps rate shock scenarios increased $58 million and $44 million, respectively. 12-month net interest income simulation our estimated 12-month nii forecast at december 31, 2017 increased from december 31, 2016 by $308 million , primarily due to the change in balance sheet composition previously noted in the eve section above. a larger portion of higher-yielding, variable rate loans relative to lower-yield fixed income securities resulted in an increase in estimated 12-month nii. as rates rise, the proportionately greater amounts of variable rate loans are expected to benefit our base 12-month nii projections. in addition, 96 table of contents the 12-month nii simulations include repricing assumptions on our interest bearing deposit products which are applied at our discretion based on client needs and our overall funding mix. repricing of interest bearing deposits impacts estimated interest expense. as noted previously, repricing deposit rates are generally assumed to be less than one-half of the amount of simulated changes in short-term market interest rates. nii sensitivity at december 31, 2017 in the +100 and +200 bps interest rate shock scenarios increased $15 million and $34 million, respectively, as compared to december 31, 2016. these changes are due primarily to the changing composition of the balance sheet as noted above. specifically, a relative increase in variable rate loans, coupled with a higher proportion of non-interest bearing deposit balances is expected to result in an increased nii in a rising rate environment. the simulation model used in the above analysis embedded floors on loans in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below zero percent in the down rate scenarios. the embedded floors are also a factor in the up rate scenarios to the extent a simulated increase in rates is needed before floored rates are cleared. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates for each interest rate scenario based on a historical deposit study of our clients. these assumptions may change in future periods based on changes in client behavior and at management's discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our actual sensitivity overall. 97 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory and strategic and reputational risks. the factors described below are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing of the risks we face and are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks and uncertainties that we have not identified as material, or of we currently are not aware, may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income, increase net losses, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profiles of our clients vary across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for early- 20 table of contents stage and mid-stage privately-held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations, primarily within the technology and life science and healthcare industries. consequently, repayment of these loans is often dependent upon receipt by our borrowers of additional financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity or "exit" event. in recent periods, liquidity levels have been healthy and have improved. many companies have been able to obtain liquidity through venture capital-backed financing as well as various other exit opportunities at relatively high valuations. however, there can be no assurance that they will be able to continue to obtain funding at current valuation levels, if at all. if current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down, or valuations may drop in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. in such case, investors may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, if at all, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers' ability to repay their loans to us. in addition, because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the technology, and life science and healthcare industry sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for their securities, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property and other intangible assets, which are difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. as a result, even if a loan is secured, we may not be able to fully recover the amounts owed to us, if at all. in addition, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of our larger loans, which could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. as of december 31, 2018, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled 14.5 billion , or 50.8 percent , of our portfolio. these larger loans have over time represented, and continue to represent, an increasingly greater portion of our total loan portfolio. they include capital call lines of credit to our private equity and venture capital clients, as well as other loans made to our later-stage and larger corporate clients, and may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity, or cash flow. additionally, we have continued our efforts to grow our loan portfolio by agenting or arranging larger syndicated credit facilities and participating in larger syndicates agented by other financial institutions as well as making sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings typically sponsored by our private equity clients. in those arrangements where we do not act as the lead syndicate agent, our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is typically limited to our participation interest. further, the repayment of financing arrangements we enter into with our clients may be dependent on the financial condition or ability of third parties to meet their payment obligations to our clients. for example, we enter into formula-based financing arrangements that are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. we also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks and enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on reimbursement by third party banks. we also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers' revenues from third parties. further, in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which are dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. these capital call lines of credit are a significant proportion of our loan portfolio. (capital call lines of credit represent almost half of our loan portfolio as of the end of 2018, and may in future periods increase to more than half.) these third parties may not be able to meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us which, ultimately, could have an adverse impact on us. we also lend to individual investors, executives, entrepreneurs or other influencers in the innovation economy, primarily through svb private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. in certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulties. while such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in any borrower meeting his or her financial commitments. in addition, we lend to premium wineries and vineyards through svb wine. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment, as well as overall grape supply which may be adversely affected by poor weather, heavy rains, flooding, droughts, fires, wildfires, earthquakes or other natural or catastrophic conditions. based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - consolidated financial condition under part ii, item 7 of this report. 21 table of contents our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. although we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses that uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent upon the subjective experience and judgment of our management. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent with our credit quality assessments. moreover, banking regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we make in determining the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. these regulators may conclude that changes are necessary, which could impact our overall credit portfolio. such changes could result in, among other things, modifications to our methodology or models, reclassification or downgrades of our loans, increases in our allowance for loan losses or other credit costs, imposition of new or more stringent concentration limits, restrictions in our lending activities and/or recognition of further losses. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. as a result, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments reflected off our balance sheet and a significant portion of these commitments ultimately expire without being drawn upon. see note 19 off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees and other commitments of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. however, the actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements. for example, our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments in a challenging economic environment due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit through other channels, or the limited availability of financings from private equity or venture capital firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our private equity and venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing difficulties, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. further, although we have established a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, the level of the reserve is determined by a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. while the reserve is susceptible to significant changes, it is primarily based on credit commitments outstanding less the amounts that have been funded, the amount of the unfunded portion that we expect to be utilized in the future, credit quality of the loan credit commitments, and management's estimates and judgment. there can be no assurance that our allowance for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the allowance for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market and liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, caused by sustained periods of low market interest rates or changes in our clients' preferences for interest-bearing deposit products in periods of rising interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a significant portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and internal borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets such as loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. our interest rate spread can be affected by the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet, as well as a variety of external factors beyond our control that affect interest rate levels, such as competition, inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal 22 table of contents and monetary policies of various governmental bodies. for example, changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the federal funds, national prime ("prime"), the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not generally produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates are nevertheless likely to cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. in response to the last global economic recession, the u.s. federal reserve and other central banking institutions took monetary policy actions, including the utilization of quantitative easing and created and maintained a low interest rate environment. over the last few years, interest rates have increased. over the last several years, the federal reserve has periodically raised interest rates and may institute further changes in the future. increases, or sustained periods of increases, in interest rates may result in a change in the mix of non-interest and interest bearing accounts, and the level of off-balance sheet market-based investment preferred by our clients, which may also impact our interest rate spread. if interest rates decline or do not continue to rise, low rates could constrain our interest rate spread and may adversely affect our business forecasts. in addition, changes in the method of determining libor or other reference rates, or uncertainty related to such potential changes, may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread. in 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority announced that it would no longer persuade or compel submission of bank rates used for calculation of libor after 2021, leading to the expectation of the transition to alternative rates prior to that time. u.s. regulatory authorities have voiced similar support for phasing out libor. the impact of alternatives to libor on the valuations, pricing and operation of our financial instruments is not yet known . any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. the primary source of liquidity for the bank is client deposits. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the federal funds market supplement our liquidity. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. for example, factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, a reduction in our credit rating, any damage to our reputation or any other decrease in depositor or investor confidence in our creditworthiness and business. our access to liquidity could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any such event or failure to manage our liquidity effectively could affect our competitive position, increase our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on deposits, limit our access to the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity fund investments and direct equity investment portfolio gains depend upon the performance of our portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and merger and acquisition markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science and healthcare industries subject to applicable regulatory limits, we have also made investments through svb financial and our svb capital family of funds in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value or are impacted by changes in fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. however, the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the portfolio companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information from these companies, market volatility and interest rate factors and legal and contractual restrictions. moreover, the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments also often depend on factors beyond our control. in addition to those mentioned above, such factors include the level of public offering and merger and acquisition or other exit activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell our equity positions (including the expiration of any lock-up agreements) and the timing of any actual dispositions. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, their fair market value might increase or decrease 23 table of contents materially from period to period, and the net proceeds ultimately realized upon disposition might be materially different than the then-current recorded fair market value. in addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of our total investment portfolio. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. see note 13 derivative financial instruments of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. changes in the market for public equity offerings, mergers and acquisitions or a slowdown in private equity or venture capital investment levels may affect the needs of our clients for investment banking or mergers and acquisitions advisory services and the borrowing needs of our clients, which could in turn adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings, financings, and merger and acquisition activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. by contrast, a low demand for public equity or mergers and acquisitions transactions or an inability to complete such transactions due to events affecting market conditions generally, such as a partial or full u.s. government shutdown, could result in fewer transactions overall and therefore decrease revenues of svb leerink, our investment banking business, as such revenues stem primarily from underwriting and advisory fees associated with capital markets and mergers and acquisitions transactions. a slowdown in overall private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit, which are typically utilized by our private equity and venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand in international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of shares available for grant in connection with such equity awards pursuant to our incentive compensation plans is generally subject to stockholder approval. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that could be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering, malfeasance, and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us, our clients or third party partners, denial or degradation of service attacks, malware, or other cyber-attacks. sources of attacks vary and may include 24 table of contents hackers, disgruntled employees or vendors, organized crime, terrorists, foreign governments, corporate espionage and activists. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we remain at risk for attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents. these attempts can be, and in some cases have been, directed at us (including our employees, executives or directors), as well as our vendors or other third party partners. moreover, in recent periods, large corporations (including financial institutions and retail companies), as well as u.s. governmental agencies, have suffered significant data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us, which could subject us to potential liability. additionally, state-sponsored or terrorist-sponsored efforts to hack or disable information technology systems increases risks, since the motivation may be for geopolitical as much as for financial gain. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on our networks and systems, as well as those of our clients and certain of our third-party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees and third-party contractors. in addition, svb provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks. under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. furthermore, svb's cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third-party processing services. as such, svb is subject to risk from data breaches of such third-party's information systems or their payment processors, for reasons including unauthorized card use. such a data security breach could compromise svb's account information, cause losses on card accounts and increase litigation costs. svb may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. we also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through svb's systems, as well as financial analytics services. in the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. in the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages. in addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. the forms, methods, and sophistication of fraud, security breaches, cyber-attacks and other similar criminal activity continue to evolve, and as we evolve and grow our business, especially in new businesses or geographies, we may be unable to foresee future risks. although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security and effectiveness of our cyber incident response plans, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, fraudulent activities, breaches of security or cyber-attacks could result in: financial losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; loss or exposure of our confidential data or information; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; loss of personnel; disruption to our business; force majeure claims by us or critical suppliers; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability --- any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our risk mitigation strategies and internal controls, including risk assessment policies and procedures, testing, backup and redundancy systems, incident response plans, training, and authentication or encryption tools, may not be effective against defending against fraud, security breaches or cyber-attacks. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions. such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. 25 table of contents our information technology systems, people and internal business processes are critical to our operations and future growth. our systems may be subject to service outages from time to time due to various reasons, including infrastructure failures, interruptions due to system upgrades or malware removal, employee error or malfeasance, or other force majeure-related reasons, which could cause business disruption. additionally, our systems and processes need to be sufficiently scalable to operate effectively, and we need to have the appropriate talent to support our business. as a result, we continue to invest in technology and more automated solutions in order to optimize the efficiency of our core operational and administrative infrastructure. in the absence of having effective automated solutions, we may rely on manual processes which may be more prone to error. moreover, as we evolve, we may further install or implement new systems and processes or otherwise replace, upgrade or make other modifications to our existing systems and processes. these changes could be costly and require significant investment in the training of our employees and other third-party partners, as well as impose substantial demands on management time. if we do not implement new initiatives or utilize new technologies effectively or in accordance with regulatory requirements, or if our people (including outsourced business partners) are not appropriately trained or developed or do not perform their functions properly, we could experience business interruptions or other system failures which, among other things, could result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, loss of clients, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions or damage to our reputation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. for example, our corporate headquarters and some of our critical business offices are located in california, near major earthquake faults. an earthquake or other disaster could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. we and other financial institutions generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might become vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and clients. although we have implemented a business continuity management program that we continue to enhance on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the program will adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around the state of california, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a significant portion of our client borrowers, including our premium winery and vineyard clients, our svb private bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients, are located in or have offices in the state of california, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property, including wildfires and earthquakes. if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire, drought or other natural or catastrophic disaster in california or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as the united kingdom, germany, hong kong, china, israel and india, to provide services to us and our clients or otherwise act as partners in our business activities in a variety of ways, including through the provision of key components of our business infrastructure. we expect these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities in a manner that reflects positively on our brand and business. although we manage exposure to such third party risk through a variety of means including the performance of due diligence and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance, there can be no assurance these efforts will be effective. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational disruptions, increased expenditures, regulatory actions in which we may be held responsible for the actions of third parties, damage to our reputation and the loss of clients, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial 26 table of contents banks, investment banks, payment processors, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products we have arranged. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. any losses arising from such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other information relating to their business or financial condition. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports or other certifications of their auditors or accountants. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information in evaluating the credit-worthiness or other risk-profiles of our clients or counterparties, we could be subject to loan losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or experience other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition or results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under an alternative policy or method. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations of the sec, can be costly and require significant management attention. as we continue to grow, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amidst dynamic regulatory and other guidance. failure to maintain effective controls or implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. if we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement costly and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation. we face risks associated with our current international operations and ongoing international expansion. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. we currently have international offices in the united kingdom, israel, germany, hong kong and china, including a joint-venture bank in china. we further plan to expand our operations and business activities in some of our current international markets, as well as expand our business beyond those markets, including a pending branch application in canada. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations; risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners through joint ventures, strategic arrangements or other partnerships; and, other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, the incremental requirement of management's attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, data security or transfer risks, cultural differences, political and economic risks such as uncertainty created by the approval of an advisory referendum by a majority of voters in the united kingdom to the leave the european union in june 2016, and financial risks, including currency 27 table of contents and payment risks such as fluctuation in the value of the euro and chinese yuan (renminbi). these risks could hinder our ability, or the ability of our local partners, to service our clients effectively, and adversely affect the success of our international operations, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, privacy laws, economic and trade sanctions requirements and other foreign laws and regulations. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on our conduct, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our asset size continues to grow. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the cfpb, and the dbo, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time, result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums, and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. further, the stringency of the federal bank prudential regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size and international business grows. as one example, under the dodd-frank act (as amended by the egrrcpa) and the tailoring proposal, certain enhanced prudential standards will apply to us if we reach or exceed $50 billion in average total consolidated assets. in addition, federal regulations implementing the advanced approaches capital rules as well as the additional heightened standards noted above currently apply to banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure (which is a measure of international activity that focuses on foreign assets). the capital and liquidity thresholds proposal would replace the advanced approaches thresholds with two new thresholds: i) $700 billion in average total consolidated assets, and ii) $100 billion in average total consolidated assets and $75 billion or more in "cross-jurisdictional activity" (a measure of international activity that looks at both foreign assets and liabilities). compliance with any of these additional requirements could require a material investment of resources and lead to other limitations on our business and our ability to expand. further, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital and meet other minimum financial standards, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future, affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes or affect our overall business strategies and plans. furthermore, following the 2008 financial crisis, the basel committee adopted additional capital, leverage and liquidity standards under basel iii, and has since finalized additional standards. most notably, in december 2017, the basel committee published a set of revisions to its basel iii framework to address perceived weaknesses in the current methodology for calculating risk weighted assets, in particular to increase the risk-sensitivity of the standardized approach and to constrain banking organizations' discretion in modeling their capital requirements under models-based approaches (such as the advanced approaches in the united states). following the adoption of the final standards, the federal reserve, the fdic and the occ announced on december 7, 2017 that they support the conclusion of efforts to reform the international bank capital standards in response to the global financial crisis, and that they would consider how to appropriately apply these revisions to the basel iii reform package in the united states through the standard notice - and-comment rulemaking process . the federal reserve previously has adopted regulations that generally align with international standards, and have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those previously in place. such requirements include limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executives if certain minimum capital requirements are not maintained. the federal reserve also has adopted certain stress testing requirements. to the extent we are subject to these stress testing requirements following the adoption of the tailoring proposal, and depending on the results of any stress tests, we could be required to raise additional capital or take certain other actions. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the growth of our business, the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we continue to grow and meet regulatory thresholds that trigger enhanced standards, such as average total consolidated assets of $100 billion, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including enhanced prudential standards, required by the dodd-frank act (as amended by egrrcpa) and regulations adopted by the federal reserve applicable to large bank holding companies. 28 table of contents as of december 31, 2018 , our total consolidated assets were $56.9 billion and we had approximately $7.5 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposures. as a result, under the federal reserve's current enhanced prudential standard regulations, svb financial would be subject to more stringent prudential standards. following the passage of the egrrcpa, however, the federal reserve issued a statement that it would not require firms with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets to comply with those requirements. in addition, the tailoring proposal would revise the federal reserve's regulations to reflect this new $100 billion threshold. as a consequence, if the tailoring proposal is adopted as proposed, svb financial would become subject to more stringent prudential standards if we averaged total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more at the end of a four-quarter period. pursuant to the dodd-frank act (as amended by the egrrcpa), the more stringent prudential standards that could apply include requirements related to risk-based and leverage capital, liquidity, risk management, resolution planning, company-run and supervisory capital stress testing, single counterparty credit exposure limits, and early remediation - all of which require appropriate resources and planning. the dodd-frank act further permits, but does not require, the federal reserve to apply enhanced prudential standards to large bank holding companies in other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosures . further, our international business continues to grow. crossing the advanced approaches thresholds would trigger additional heightened requirements and compliance costs that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. although the capital and liquidity thresholds proposal significantly increases the advanced approaches thresholds, these additional heightened requirements could apply if the proposal were to be adopted and we were to cross the revised thresholds. our level of foreign exposures is determined based on our current understanding of applicable regulatory standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations and assumptions, and may be subject to change based on any modifications, clarifications or evolution of these standards, guidance, interpretations, expectations or assumptions, including as contemplated by the tailoring proposal. if we become subject to such enhanced prudential standards, we will face more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increased compliance costs. for example, if we are subject to ccar, the federal reserve may object to, or otherwise not respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions or stress test results, and we may be limited as to how we utilize our capital, including with respect to common stock dividends and stock repurchases. in addition, if we become subject to the federal reserve's and the fdic's resolution planning rules requiring us to submit plans for an orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure, and those agencies jointly determine that our resolution plan is not credible, and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the federal reserve and the fdic may jointly impose on svb financial or our subsidiaries more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or require the divestment of assets or operations. further, under the lcr rule, we would be required to measure specified unencumbered high-quality liquid assets against our expected net cash outflows, using the methodologies prescribed by the rule. as a result of the rule's application, svb financial may be required to manage our holdings of high-quality liquid assets at levels beyond what we believe we need operationally in order to manage liquidity effectively. additionally, such an increase may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations since high-quality liquid assets tend to carry lower yields. see business-supervision and regulation-enhanced prudential standards, under this part i, item 1, for a more detailed description of the various requirements which may become applicable to us. we face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the bank secrecy act, other anti-money laundering and anti-bribery statutes and regulations, and u.s. economic and trade sanctions. the bank secrecy act, the usa patriot act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. the federal financial crimes enforcement network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with state and federal banking regulators, as well as the u.s. department of justice, drug enforcement administration, and internal revenue service. we also must comply with u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and we, like other financial institutions, are subject to increased scrutiny for compliance with these requirements. we maintain policies, procedures and systems designed to detect and deter prohibited financing activities, however if these controls were deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including civil fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. in addition, any failure to effectively maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious reputational consequences for us. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 29 table of contents if we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, finra and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, svb asset management and svb securities. these regulations are highly complex, and if we were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws and regulations governing financial institutions and broker-dealers, these regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring us to maintain higher insurance levels, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling us or any of our employees from the securities business. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims or fines against us. we are subject to an evolving body of federal, state and non-u.s. laws, regulations, guidelines and principles regarding data privacy and security, including the protection of personal information. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. for example, the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, extends the scope of the european union data protection law to all companies processing data of eu residents, regardless of location. in 2018, the state of california, where our principal offices are located, passed the california consumer privacy act, which becomes effective as of january 2020, which establishes new requirements regarding handling of personal data to entities serving or employing california residents. the gdpr, california consumer privacy act and other changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data and other personal information, may require us to evaluate our current operations, information technology systems and data handling practices and implement enhancements and adaptations where necessary to comply. our failure to comply with any such laws may result in significant liabilities and/or reputational harm. adverse results from litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. while we have not recognized a material accrual liability for any lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or that judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves. further, adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. moreover, even if we prevail in such actions, litigation and investigations can be costly and time-consuming, and often risks diverting the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. our holding company, svb financial, relies on equity warrant assets income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. 30 table of contents svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: income from our equity warrant assets and investment securities and, to the extent declared, cash dividends paid by its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these sources generate cash which is used by svb financial to pay operating and borrowing costs and, to the extent authorized or declared, fund dividends to stockholders and stock repurchase programs. any income derived from those financial instruments is subject to a variety of factors as discussed in the credit risks portion of this risk factors section. moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. in addition, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a liquidation or reorganization of any of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. anti-takeover provisions and federal laws, particularly those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price. as a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the change in bank control act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either the federal reserve must approve or after receiving notice, must not object to any person or entity acquiring control (as determined under the federal reserve's standards) of a bank holding company, such as svb financial, or a state member bank, such as the bank. in addition, dbo approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the bank. moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, any of these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. strategic, reputational and other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses, or to the extent we establish internal concentration limits to mitigate such risk, lower revenues or a slow-down in growth. concentration of risk stemming from our focus on certain markets or segments, including those by client industry, life-cycle stage, size and geography, increases the potential for significant losses, or may result in lower revenues or slower growth, if we choose to limit growth in certain markets or segments to mitigate concentration risk. while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated within the following general industry niches: technology, life science and healthcare, private equity and venture capital and premium wine. in particular, our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software/internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. our life science and healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. many of our client companies are also concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. we take deposits from these clients and are also continuing to increase our efforts to lend to larger clients and to make larger loans. in addition, growth prospects and our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may lead to an increase in our concentration risk. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities as well as certain types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable to our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking and financial products and services to companies, investors, entrepreneurs and influencers in the innovation economy, including in particular to early-stage and mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, corporate investors, crowd-funding and other evolving sources of capital. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors or other funding sources. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of public equity offerings or merger and acquisition activity, primarily among companies within the technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science/healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries, and 31 table of contents overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could also reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science/healthcare industry sectors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of our new clients and investor financial support to our existing clients could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth. we compete with other banks as well as specialty and diversified financial services companies and investment and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are and which may offer a broader range of lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, and other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete with other alternative and more specialized lenders, such as online marketplace lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. moreover, we compete with non-financial services, particularly payment facilitators and processors or other fintech or nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry, which may offer specialized services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. such competitors may focus their marketing efforts on industry sectors which we serve and for example, seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. we may have to agree to accept less attractive credit, pricing and other investment terms if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures and market disruption could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or future growth of our non-banking services, including our payments services, as well as our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. in particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. as a result, we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards as well as introduce new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, such as the acquisition of svb leerink, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. we are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us, or in some cases, are experimental in nature. for example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience from a business, legal and/or regulatory perspective. with the acquisition of svb leerink, we have also expanded into new lines of business, namely, investment banking and m&amp;a advisory services. we are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems. we may also serve clients that deal with new or evolving industries or business activities, such as digital currencies. given our evolving geographic and product diversification, and our innovative product solutions, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputational and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks. our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new internally-developed growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting 32 table of contents management's expectations, actually realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and overall general market conditions. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and other actors in the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business. an ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences. we have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and reputational risks. our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. in addition, our board of directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. however, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. if our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in addition, if we grow to total average consolidated assets of $50 billion or greater or cross the advanced approaches thresholds (or if the tailoring proposal and capital and liquidity thresholds proposal are adopted as proposed, and we grow to total average consolidated assets of $100 billion or more), we will become subject to more stringent risk management requirements that could increase our compliance costs and require us to further enhance our risk management framework and practices. see the section "business-supervision and regulation-enhanced prudential standards" under this part i, item 1 of this report. we rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and result of operations, and managing risk. however, all models have certain limitations. for example, our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may not capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect the changing environment. further, even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. although we employ strategies to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models, they may not be effective or fully reliable. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we operate and ultimately cause planning failures or the reporting of incorrect information to our regulators. any such occurrence or the perception of such occurrence by our regulators, investors or clients could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial conditions. our capital stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals. 33 table of contents in accordance with the dodd-frank act and the federal reserve's regulations thereunder, banking organizations with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests. under the tailoring proposal, banking organizations with $100 billion or more in assets are required to perform annual capital stress tests. the results of any capital stress tests to which we are subject may require us to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions under certain circumstances. our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. these models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. in addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay the possibility of our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends. we could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations. we are subject to the income tax laws of the united states, its constituent states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. these tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income. the price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. among the factors that could affect our stock price are: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors; actions by institutional stockholders; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; actual or anticipated changes in interest rates; market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or "exit" activities of companies in the industries we serve; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. the trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. a significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 94 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities, which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk, equity price risk, including the effect of competition on product pricing. while all of these risks are important considerations, all are inherently difficult to predict, and it is equally difficult to assess the impact of each on the overall simulation results. consequently, simulations used to analyze sensitivity of net interest income to interest rate risk will differ from actual results due to differences in the timing, frequency, and magnitude of changes in market rates, the impact of competition, fluctuating business conditions, and the impact of strategies taken by management to mitigate these risks. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the sensitivity of the market valuation on earning assets and funding liabilities and 12-month forward looking net interest income from changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence with relevant metrics included in our interest rate risk policy, which is approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our fixed income securities portfolio, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivatives to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the economic value of our equity and our net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and business strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded within our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in economic value and net interest income relating solely to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position and sensitivity to market rates on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis a specific application of our simulation model involves measurement of the impact of changes in market interest rates on our economic value of equity ( eve ). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities. another application of the simulation model measures the impact of changes in market interest rates on our net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet as of the period-end reporting date. for the nii simulation, market rates as well as the size and composition of the balance sheet are held constant over the simulation horizon. simulated cash flows during the scenario horizon are assumed to be replaced as they occur, which maintains the balance sheet at its current size and composition. yield and spread assumptions on cash and investment balances reflect current market rates. yield and spread assumptions on loans reflect recent market impacts on product pricing. similarly, we make certain deposit decay rate assumptions on demand deposits and interest bearing deposits, which are replenished to hold the level and mix of funding liabilities constant. changes in market interest rates that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following benchmark indexes: (i) national prime rates, (ii) 1-month and 3-month libor, and (iii) the federal funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans, variable rate investment securities and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. additionally, simulated changes in deposit pricing relative to changes in market rates, commonly referred to as deposit beta, generally follow overall changes in short-term interest rates, although actual changes may lag in terms of timing and magnitude. overall, the assumed weighted deposit beta on interest bearing deposits is approximately 35 percent, which means deposit repricing is assumed to be approximately 35 percent of a given change in short-term interest rates. this repricing is reflected as a change in interest expense on interest bearing deposit balances. 94 table of contents the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points ("bps") at december 31, 2018 and at december 31, 2017 : change in interest rates (bps) (dollars in thousands) estimated estimated increase/(decrease) in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii eve amount percent nii amount percent december 31, 2018: +200 $ 9,348,408 $ 504,405 5.7 % $ 2,628,279 $ 543,959 26.1 % +100 9,090,781 246,778 2.8 2,356,447 272,127 13.1 8,844,003 2,084,320 -100 8,470,501 (373,502 ) (4.2 ) 1,807,559 (276,761 ) (13.3 ) -200 7,590,973 (1,253,030 ) (14.2 ) 1,528,693 (555,627 ) (26.7 ) december 31, 2017: +200 $ 8,091,107 $ 805,624 11.1 % $ 1,885,885 $ 400,127 26.9 % +100 7,716,066 430,583 5.9 1,683,742 197,984 13.3 7,285,483 1,485,758 -100 6,637,588 (647,895 ) (8.9 ) 1,252,063 (233,695 ) (15.7 ) -200 5,718,401 (1,567,082 ) (21.5 ) 1,108,712 (377,046 ) (25.4 ) economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates to determine discounting factors on projected cash flows. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as the composition of earning assets and funding liabilities change (including the impact of changes in the value of interest rate derivatives, if any), as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market conditions, competition or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect forecast changes in our balance sheet or changes we may make to reduce our eve exposure as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk, basis risk, and yield spread compression, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent our estimate of the underlying value of equity or forecast of nii. our base eve as of december 31, 2018 increased from december 31, 2017 by $1.6 billion, driven by changes in balance sheet composition as well as rising interest rates. at december 31, 2018, as compared to december 31, 2017, total loan balances increased by $5.2 billion primarily in prime and libor indexed variable rate loans. at december 31, 2018, as compared to december 31, 2017, total fixed income securities decreased by $0.5 billion due primarily to the higher increase in total loan balances as compared to total deposit growth of $5.0 billion. higher libor/swap rates and overall balance sheet growth contributed approximately $579 million and $979 million, respectively, to the overall $1.6 billion increase in base eve. higher rates and continued investment in mortgage-backed and municipal securities resulted in a $184 million decrease in eve sensitivity in the +100 bps rate shock scenario compared to december 31, 2017. eve in the -100 and -200 bps rate shock scenarios increased $274 million and $314 million, respectively. 12-month net interest income simulation our static 12-month nii forecast at december 31, 2018 increased compared to december 31, 2017 by $599 million. the increase is primarily the result of the growth in the loan portfolio combined with increases in market rates, particularly prime and libor. as a majority of our loans are indexed to prime and libor, as rates rise, interest income on assets tied to variable rate indexes, primarily our variable rate loans, are expected to benefit our base 12-month nii projections. in addition, the 12-month nii simulations include repricing assumptions on our interest bearing deposit products which we set at our discretion based on client needs and our overall funding mix. repricing of interest bearing deposits impacts estimated interest expense. as noted previously, repricing deposit rates are generally assumed to be less than one-half of the amount of simulated changes in short-term market interest rates. 95 table of contents nii sensitivity is measured as the percentage change in projected 12-month net interest income earned in +/-100 and +/-200 basis point interest rate shock scenarios compared to a base scenario where balances and interest rates are held constant over the forecast horizon. at december 31, 2018, nii sensitivity was 13.1 percent in the +100 bps interest rate scenario, compared to 13.3 percent at december 31, 2017. our nii sensitivity in the +200 bps interest rate shock scenario was 26.1 percent compared to 26.9 percent at december 31, 2017. nii sensitivity in the -100 bps scenario of negative 13.3 percent was lower at december 31, 2018 compared to a negative 15.7 percent at december 31, 2017. the -200 bps scenario currently indicates a higher percentage change in nii at december 31, 2018 compared to december 31, 2017. the changes in nii sensitivity are the result of an increase in the composition of longer duration securities in our fixed income portfolio, as well as wider implementation of rate floors in the loan portfolio. a majority of the growth in our balance sheet during 2018 was attributable to floating rate loans coupled with a large proportion of non-interest bearing deposit balances. the relatively high percentages of non-interest bearing demand deposits and floating rate loans are the primary drivers of nii sensitivity in the balance sheet. the simulation model used in the above analysis incorporates embedded floors on loans, where present, in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below zero percent in the down rate scenarios. the embedded floors are also a factor in the up rate scenarios to the extent a simulated increase in rates is needed before floored rates are cleared. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates based on a historical deposit study of our clients. these assumptions may change in future periods based on changes in client behavior and at management's discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our actual sensitivity overall. 96 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market and liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory and strategic and reputational risks. the factors described below are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing of the risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we have not identified as material, or of which we currently are not aware, may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for credit losses in any period, which could reduce net income, increase net losses or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profiles of our clients vary across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of our lending to different market segments. early-stage and mid-stage companies. in our portfolios for early-stage and mid-stage privately held companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and/or no established record of profitable operations, primarily within the technology and life science and healthcare industries. consequently, repayment of these loans is often dependent upon receipt by our borrowers of additional financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity or exit event. in recent periods, liquidity levels have been healthy and many companies have been able to obtain liquidity through venture capital-backed financing as well as various other exit opportunities at relatively high valuations. however, there can be no assurance that they will be able to continue to obtain funding at current valuation levels, if at all. if current economic conditions weaken or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down, or valuations may drop in a meaningful manner, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. for example, equity markets may be less receptive to initial public offerings due to the recent underperformance of certain initial public offerings in the technology sector. in such case, investors may provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels and/or on less favorable terms, if at all, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers' ability to repay their loans to us. larger loans; syndicated loans. in addition, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of larger loans, which could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. as of december 31, 2019, gross loans equal to or greater than $20 million to any single client (individually or in the aggregate) totaled $15.5 billion, or 53.4 percent of our portfolio. these larger loans have represented an increasing portion of our total loan portfolio over time. they include capital call lines of credit to our private equity and venture capital clients, as well as other loans made to our later-stage and larger corporate clients, and may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, balance sheet liquidity or cash flow. additionally, we have continued our efforts to grow our loan portfolio by agenting or arranging larger syndicated credit facilities and participating in larger syndicates agented by other financial institutions as well as making sponsor-led buyout loans, which are leveraged buyout or recapitalization financings typically sponsored by our private equity clients. in those arrangements where we do not act as the lead syndicate agent, our control or decision-making ability over the credit facility is typically limited to our participation interest. loans dependent on third parties. further, the repayment of financing arrangements we enter into with our clients may be dependent on the financial condition or ability of third parties to meet their payment obligations to our clients. for example, we enter into formula-based financing arrangements that are secured by our clients' accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. we also make loans secured by letters of credit issued by third party banks and enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on reimbursement by third party banks. we also extend recurring revenue-based lines of credit, where repayment may be dependent on borrowers' revenues from third parties. further, in our loan portfolio of private equity and venture capital firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. these capital call lines of credit are a significant portion of our loan portfolio. (capital call 15 table of contents lines of credit represent more than half of our loan portfolio as of the end of 2019, and may in future periods increase). these third parties may not be able to meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which, ultimately, could have an adverse impact on us. technology, life science and healthcare industries. in addition, because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterize the technology, life science and healthcare industry sectors in which most of our borrowers reside, as well as periodic volatility in the market prices for securities of companies in these industries, a borrower's financial position can deteriorate rapidly. collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property and other intangible assets, which are difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. as a result, even if a loan is secured, we may not be able to fully recover the amounts owed to us, if at all. wineries and vineyards. in addition, we lend to premium wineries and vineyards through svb wine. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment, as well as overall grape supply and income from tourism which may be adversely affected by poor weather, heavy rains, flooding, droughts, fires, wildfires, earthquakes or other natural or catastrophic conditions. loans to individuals. we also lend to individual investors, executives, entrepreneurs or other influencers in the innovation economy, primarily through svb private bank, a division of the bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. in certain instances, we may also relax loan covenants and conditions or extend loan terms to individual borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties. while such determinations are based on an assessment of various factors, including access to additional capital in the near term, there can be no assurance that such continued support will result in any individual borrower meeting his or her financial commitments. based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for credit losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for credit losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. see loans under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - consolidated financial condition under part ii, item 7 of this report. our allowance for credit losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb credit losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our borrower clients will fail to repay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for credit losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for credit losses. although we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses that uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of credit losses are also dependent upon the subjective experience and judgment of our management. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent with our credit quality assessments. there can be no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be sufficient to absorb future credit losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. asu 2016-13, financial instruments - credit losses (topic 326): measurement of credit losses on financial instruments ( " asu 2016-13 " or " cecl " ), became effective january 1, 2020 and amended the incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. the standard removes the existing probable threshold in gaap for recognizing credit losses and instead requires companies to reflect their estimate of credit losses over the life of the financial assets. we currently estimate the day 1 combined impact of adopting cecl on our allowance for loan losses and allowance for unfunded credit commitments to be an increase of approximately $50 million (on a pre-tax basis) or approximately 13% of the total combined allowance compared to our reported amount at december 31, 2019. our ability to accurately forecast estimated credit losses will evolve based on how the new model and related inputs correspond to actual loss rates, and this process may take longer than expected. banking regulators, as part of their supervisory function, periodically review our methodology, models and the underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we make in determining the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses. these 16 table of contents regulators may conclude that changes are necessary, which could impact our overall credit portfolio. such changes could result in, among other things, modifications to our methodology or models, reclassification or downgrades of our loans, increases in our allowance for credit losses or other credit costs, imposition of new or more stringent concentration limits, restrictions in our lending activities and/or recognition of further losses. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as the conditions established under the agreement have been satisfied. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. as a result, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments reflected off our balance sheet, and a significant portion of these commitments ultimately expire without being drawn upon. see note 22- off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees and other commitments of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. however, the actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements. for example, our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments in a challenging economic environment due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit through other channels, or the limited availability of financings from private equity or venture capital firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our private equity and venture capital fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing difficulties, which may impact our clients' borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. further, although we have established a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, the level of the reserve is determined by a methodology that is similar to that used to establish our allowance for credit losses in our funded loan portfolio and that has also been amended by cecl. the reserve is susceptible to significant changes and is primarily based on credit commitments less the amounts that have been funded, the amount of the unfunded portion that we expect to be utilized in the future, credit quality of the loan credit commitments, and management's estimates and judgment. there can be no assurance that our allowance for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the allowance for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. cecl became effective january 1, 2020 and amended the incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. the standard removes the existing probable threshold in gaap for recognizing credit losses and instead requires companies to reflect their estimate of credit losses over the life of the financial assets. we currently estimate the day 1 combined impact of adopting cecl on our allowance for loan losses and allowance for unfunded credit commitments to be an increase of approximately $50 million (on a pre-tax basis) or approximately 13% of the total combined allowance compared to our reported amount at december 31, 2019. our ability to accurately forecast estimated credit losses will evolve based on how the new model and related inputs correspond to actual loss rates, and this process may take longer than expected. market and liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a significant portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and internal borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to our clients, securities held in our investment portfolio and excess cash held to manage short-term liquidity. our interest rate spread can be affected by the mix of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet, as well as a variety of external factors beyond our control that affect interest rate levels, such as competition, inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of various governmental bodies. for example, changes in key variable market interest rates, such as the federal funds, national prime ( prime ), libor or treasury rates, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not generally produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates are nevertheless likely to cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. the federal reserve has recently lowered interest rates and may continue to do so in the future. if interest rates do not rise or continue to decline, low rates could constrain our interest rate spread and may adversely affect our business forecasts. on the other hand, increases in interest rates may result in 17 table of contents a change in the mix of non-interest and interest-bearing accounts, and the level of off-balance sheet market-based investment preferred by our clients, which may also impact our interest rate spread. changes in the method of determining libor or other reference rates, or uncertainty related to such potential changes, may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread. in 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority announced that it would no longer persuade or compel submission of bank rates used for calculation of libor after 2021. this announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. consequently, at this time, it is not possible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide submissions for the calculation of libor. similarly, it is not possible to predict what rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, or what the effect of any such changes in views or alternatives may be on the markets for libor-linked financial instruments. regulators, industry groups and certain committees (for example, the alternative reference rates committee) have published recommended fallback language for libor-linked financial instruments, identified recommended alternatives for certain libor rates (e.g., the secured overnight financing rate as the recommended alternative to u.s. dollar libor), and proposed implementations of the recommended alternatives in floating rate instruments. at this time, it is not possible to predict whether these recommendations and proposals will be broadly accepted, whether they will continue to evolve, and what the effect of their implementation may be on the markets for floating-rate financial instruments. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected financial obligations, as well as unexpected requirements stemming from client activity and market changes. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include cash flow from investments and interest in financial assets held by operating subsidiaries other than the bank; to the extent declared, dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary; and as needed, periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. the primary source of liquidity for the bank is client deposits. when needed, our liquidity is supplemented by wholesale borrowing capacity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the federal funds market. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank's liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. for example, factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, a downturn in asset markets such that the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our secured obligations, a reduction in our credit rating, any damage to our reputation or any other decrease in depositor or investor confidence in our creditworthiness and business. our access to liquidity could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as laws and regulations that limit the amount of intercompany dividends that bank subsidiaries may pay, severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any such event or failure to manage our liquidity effectively could affect our competitive position, increase our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on deposits, limit our access to the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity fund investments and direct equity investment portfolio gains depend upon the performance of our portfolio investments and the general condition of the public and private equity and mergers and acquisitions markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology, life science and healthcare industries subject to applicable regulatory limits. we have also made investments through svb financial, svb leerink and our svb capital family of funds in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value or are impacted by changes in fair value. the fair values of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. however, the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depends on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the portfolio companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information from these companies, market volatility and interest rate factors and legal and contractual restrictions. moreover, the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from our disposition of these financial instruments also often depend on factors beyond our control. in addition to those mentioned above, such factors include the level of public offerings, and mergers and acquisitions or other exit activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell our equity positions (including the expiration of any lock-up agreements) and the timing of any actual dispositions. because of the inherent 18 table of contents variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, their fair market value might increase or decrease materially from period to period, and the net proceeds ultimately realized upon disposition might be materially different than the then-current recorded fair market value. in addition, depending on the fair value of these warrants and direct equity investments, a meaningful portion of the aggregate fair value of our total warrant and direct equity investment portfolios may, from time to time, be concentrated in a limited number of warrants and direct equity investments. valuation changes in one or more of these warrants or direct equity investments may have a material impact on the valuation of our total investment portfolio. moreover, because valuations of private companies are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value for private companies may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. therefore, fair value determinations may materially understate or overstate the value that we ultimately realize upon the sale of one or more investments. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. see note 16- derivative financial instruments of the notes to the consolidated financial statements under part ii, item 8 of this report for additional details. changes in the market for public equity offerings, mergers and acquisitions or a slowdown in private equity or venture capital investment levels may affect the needs of our clients for investment banking or mergers and acquisitions advisory services and the borrowing needs of our clients, which could in turn adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings, financings, and mergers and acquisitions activity generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. by contrast, a low demand for public equity or mergers and acquisitions transactions or an inability to complete such transactions due to events affecting market conditions generally, such as a partial or full u.s. government shutdown, could result in fewer transactions overall and therefore decrease revenues of svb leerink, our investment banking business, as such revenues stem primarily from underwriting and advisory fees associated with capital markets and mergers and acquisitions transactions. a slowdown in overall private equity or venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit, which are typically utilized by our private equity and venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand into international markets, we will need to hire local personnel within those markets. further, competition for key personnel is substantial and may increase, particularly if new competitors seek to enter one of our markets or existing market participants seek to increase their market share. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of shares available for grant in connection with such equity awards pursuant to our incentive compensation plans is generally subject to stockholder approval. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse effect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that could be committed against us, our clients or our third party partners, which may result in financial losses or 19 table of contents increased costs to us or our clients, disclosure or misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our employees or clients, litigation or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering, business email compromise, malfeasance and other dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us, our clients or third party partners, denial or degradation of service attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks. sources of attacks vary and may include hackers, disgruntled employees or vendors, organized crime, terrorists, foreign governments, corporate espionage and activists. in recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we remain at risk for attempted electronic fraudulent activity, as well as attempts at security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents. these attempts can be, and in some cases have been, directed at us (including our employees, executives or directors), as well as our vendors or other third party partners. moreover, in recent periods, large corporations (including financial institutions and retail companies), as well as u.s. governmental agencies, have suffered significant data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us, which could subject us to potential liability. additionally, state-sponsored or terrorist-sponsored efforts to hack or disable information technology systems increases risks, since the motivation may be for geopolitical as much as for financial gain. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on our networks and systems, as well as those of our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence. breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees and third party contractors. in addition, svb provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with those merchants and/or with the payment networks. under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach. furthermore, svb's cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third party processing services. as such, svb is subject to risk from data breaches of such third party's information systems or its payment processors, for reasons including unauthorized card use. such a data security breach could compromise svb's account information, cause losses on card accounts and increase litigation costs. svb may suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for such fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. we also offer certain services that allow non-accountholders to process payments through svb's systems, as well as financial analytics services. in the course of providing those services, we may obtain sensitive data about customers who do not otherwise hold accounts with us, including information regarding accounts held at other institutions, as well as profit and loss and other proprietary financial or other information regarding our customers or the non-accountholders they service. in the event of a data breach, this sensitive information may be exposed and could subject us to claims for damages. in addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third party technologies and services (including cloud computing and storage, computing hardware, browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. the forms, methods and sophistication of fraud, security breaches, cyber-attacks and other similar criminal activity continue to evolve, and as we evolve and grow our business, especially in new businesses or geographies, we may be unable to foresee future risks. although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security and effectiveness of our cyber incident response plans, our risk mitigation strategies and internal controls, including risk assessment policies and procedures, testing, backup and redundancy systems, incident response plans, training and authentication or encryption tools, may not be effective against defending against fraud, security breaches or cyber-attacks. our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, fraudulent activities, breaches of security or cyber-attacks could result in: financial losses to us or our clients; our loss of business and/or clients; loss or exposure of our confidential data or information; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; loss of personnel; disruption to our business; force majeure claims by us or critical suppliers; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. 20 table of contents our information technology systems, people and internal business processes are critical to our operations and future growth. our systems may be subject to service outages from time to time due to various reasons, including infrastructure failures, interruptions due to system upgrades or malware removal, employee error or malfeasance, or other force majeure-related reasons (such as recent blackouts in california), which could cause business disruption. additionally, our systems and processes need to be sufficiently scalable to operate effectively, and we need to have the appropriate talent and organizational structures to support our business. as a result, we continue to invest in technology and more automated solutions in order to optimize the efficiency of our core operational and administrative infrastructure. in the absence of having effective automated solutions, we may rely on manual processes which may be more prone to error. moreover, as we evolve, we may further install or implement new systems and processes or otherwise replace, upgrade or make other modifications to our existing systems and processes. these changes could be costly and require significant investment in the training of our employees and other third party partners, as well as impose substantial demands on management time. if we do not implement new initiatives or utilize new technologies effectively or in accordance with regulatory requirements, or if our people (including outsourced business partners) are not appropriately trained or developed or do not perform their functions properly or have the appropriate resources to do so, we could experience business interruptions or other system failures which, among other things, could result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, loss of clients, employee dissatisfaction, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions or damage to our reputation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as the effects of earthquakes, fires, floods, severe weather, public health issues such as the recent outbreak of the coronavirus or other pandemic diseases, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events, some of which may be intensified by the effects of climate change and changing weather patterns. for example, our corporate headquarters and some of our critical business offices are located in california, which has recently experienced major wildfires and blackouts and is located over major earthquake fault lines. an earthquake or other disaster could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property and significantly impact our employees. more recently, the coronavirus outbreak, which originated in china, has impacted other countries. there have been numerous reports of the outbreak disrupting or restricting supply chains, resulting in closures of facilities and reductions in demand across companies in a variety of industries. it is also possible that the spread of the coronavirus may have direct effects on our operations, such as limiting employee travel or increasing telecommuting arrangements. in addition, recent developments and reports relating to the coronavirus have coincided with heightened volatility in financial markets in the u.s. and worldwide. if the coronavirus adversely affects the ability of our borrowers to satisfy their obligations, the demand for our loans, or our business operations, or leads to a significant or prolonged impact on global markets or economic growth, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. we and other financial institutions generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material manner. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might become vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and clients. although we have implemented a business continuity management program that we continue to enhance on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that the program will adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events, including those occurring in and around california, could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to repay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a significant portion of our client borrowers, including our premium winery and vineyard clients, our svb private bank mortgage clients and other corporate clients, are located in or have offices in california, which has historically experienced severe natural disasters resulting in disruptions to businesses and damage to property, including wildfires and earthquakes. if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire, drought or other natural or catastrophic disaster in california or elsewhere in the markets in which we operate, our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses or sustained disruption to business or loss that may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as canada, the united kingdom, germany, denmark, hong kong, china, israel and india, to provide services to us and our clients or otherwise act as partners in our business activities in a variety of ways, including through the provision of key components of our business infrastructure. 21 table of contents we expect these third parties to perform services for us, fulfill their obligations to us, accurately inform us of relevant information, and conduct their activities in a manner that reflects positively on our brand and business. although we manage exposure to such third party risk through a variety of means, including the performance of due diligence and ongoing monitoring of vendor performance, there can be no assurance these efforts will be effective. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational disruptions, increased expenditures, regulatory actions in which we may be held responsible for the actions of third parties, damage to our reputation and the loss of clients, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance. our third party partners may also rely on their own business partners and service providers in the ordinary course of their business. although we seek to diversify our exposure to third party partners in order to increase our resiliency, we are nevertheless exposed to the risk that a disruption or other information technology event at a common service provider to our vendors could impede their ability to provide products or services to us, which in turn could harm our business and operations, strategic growth objectives and financial performance. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated because of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, payment processors and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products we have arranged. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in particular, the interconnectivity of multiple financial services institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. any losses arising from such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other information relating to their business or financial condition. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports or other certifications of their auditors or accountants. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements conform to gaap (or other applicable accounting standards in foreign markets) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information in evaluating the creditworthiness or other risk profiles of our clients or counterparties, we could be subject to credit losses, regulatory action, reputational harm or experience other adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations of the sec, can be costly and require significant management attention. as we continue to grow or acquire additional businesses, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amidst dynamic regulatory and other guidance. failure to maintain effective controls or implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. if we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or if we are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement costly and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation. 22 table of contents we face risks associated with our current international operations and ongoing international expansion. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. we currently have international offices in canada, the united kingdom, israel, germany, denmark, india, hong kong and china, including a joint-venture bank in china. we plan to expand our operations and business activities in some of our current international markets, as well as expand our business beyond those markets. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations; risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners through joint ventures, strategic arrangements or other partnerships; and other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions; uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, such as recent trade tensions between the united states and china; uncertainties regarding international public health issues like the recent outbreak of the coronavirus; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; the incremental requirement of management's attention and resources; differing technology standards or customer requirements; data security or transfer risks; cultural differences; political and economic risks such as uncertainty created by the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union on january 31, 2020; and financial risks, including currency and payment risks such as fluctuation in the value of the euro and chinese yuan (renminbi). these risks could hinder our ability, or the ability of our local partners, to service our clients effectively, and adversely affect the success of our international operations, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees and affiliates may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, anti-corruption laws, privacy laws, economic and trade sanctions requirements and other applicable laws and regulations. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could, among other things, result in enforcement actions and fines against us, as well as limitations on the conduct of our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. legal and regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us, and the stringency of the regulatory framework applicable to us may increase if, and as, our balance sheet continues to grow. svb financial, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the cfpb, the sec and the dbo, as well as various regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, restrict, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time, result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums, and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees (especially when compared to competitors not subject to similar restrictions). further, the stringency of the regulatory framework that applies to us may increase as our asset size and international business grows. a change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, including limiting or imposing conditions on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the growth of our business, the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we continue to grow and meet regulatory thresholds that trigger enhanced standards, we will be subject to more stringent regulations, including certain enhanced prudential standards applicable to large bank holding companies. as of december 31, 2019, our total consolidated assets were $71.0 billion. under the tailoring rules, many enhanced prudential standards and other related requirements do not currently apply to bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or less, such as svb financial. certain enhanced prudential standards and related requirements would apply to us should we exceed $100 billion in total consolidated assets. for example, category iv institutions under the tailoring rules (which generally are those with between $100 billion and $250 billion in total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in certain risk-based indicators) are subject to additional requirements, such as supervisory stress testing and the requirement to submit an annual capital plan to the federal reserve. if we become subject to additional prudential standards, we will face more stringent requirements or limitations on our business, as well as increased compliance costs. for example, if we are subject to ccar, the federal reserve may object to, or otherwise not respond favorably to, our capital plan, capital actions or stress test results, and we may be limited as to how we utilize our capital, including with respect to common stock repurchases. see business-supervision and regulation-enhanced 23 table of contents prudential standards, under this part i, item 1, for a more detailed description of the various requirements that may become applicable to us. we face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the bank secrecy act, other anti-money laundering and anti-bribery statutes and regulations, and u.s. economic and trade sanctions. the bank secrecy act, the usa patriot act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions to, among other duties, institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. the federal financial crimes enforcement network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with state and federal banking regulators, as well as the u.s. department of justice and irs. we also must comply with u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and we, like other financial institutions, are subject to increased scrutiny for compliance with these requirements. we maintain policies, procedures and systems designed to detect and deter prohibited financing activities. however, if these controls were deemed deficient or fail to prevent wrongdoing, we could be subject to liability, including civil fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan. in addition, any failure to effectively maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious reputational consequences for us. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we were to violate, or fail to comply with, international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, finra and state securities regulators, regulate investment advisers and broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries, svb asset management and svb leerink. these laws and regulations are highly complex, and if we were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, imposing higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring us to maintain higher insurance levels, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling us or any of our employees from certain businesses. for example, we could face material restrictions on our activities and our ability to enter into certain transactions if svb financial and the bank cease to maintain their status as well-capitalized or well-managed as defined under relevant regulations. these enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. laws and regulations regarding the handling of personal data and information may impede our services or result in increased costs, legal claims or fines against us. we are subject to an evolving body of federal, state and non-u.s. laws, regulations, guidelines and principles regarding data privacy and security, including the protection of personal information. legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data continue to evolve, and regulatory scrutiny in this area is increasing around the world. significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. for example, the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, extends the scope of the european union data protection law to all companies processing data of eu residents, regardless of location. in 2018, the state of california, where our principal offices are located, passed the california consumer privacy act, or ccpa, which became effective as of january 2020, and established new requirements regarding handling of personal data to entities serving or employing california residents. the gdpr and ccpa have heightened our privacy compliance obligations and have required us to evaluate our current operations, information technology systems and data handling practices and implement changes where necessary to comply, with associated costs. our failure to comply with any such laws, or the failure of our current operations, information technology systems and data handling practices to prevent breaches involving personal data, may result in significant liabilities and/or reputational harm. adverse results from litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations can impact our business practices and operating results. we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in governmental or regulatory investigations and inquiries relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business. while we have not recognized a material accrual liability for any lawsuits and claims filed or pending against us to date, the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain and it is possible that the actual results of one or more of such matters may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved, or that judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed 24 table of contents in matters for which we have no reserves. further, adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations may result in significant monetary damages, admissions of guilt or injunctive relief that may adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. any such resolution of a criminal matter involving us or our employees could lead to increased exposure to civil litigation and overlapping government investigations, could adversely affect our reputation, could result in penalties or limitations on our ability to conduct our activities generally or in certain circumstances and could have other negative effects. moreover, even if we prevail in such actions, litigation and investigations can be costly and time-consuming, and often risk diverting the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the fasb or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition or results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. we could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations. we are subject to the income tax laws of the united states, its constituent states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have business operations. these tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income. a failure to appropriately identify and address potential conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses. due to the broad scope of our businesses, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of that client or another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with our other businesses and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. for example, svb leerink provides investment banking services to clients in the healthcare and life sciences industry, some of which may also be clients or potential clients of the bank. in addition, we invest in and partner with entities in the innovation economy, some of which may be clients or potential clients of the bank. we have procedures and controls designed to identify and address these conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. however, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. our holding company, svb financial, relies on equity warrant assets income, investment distributions and dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives most of its cash revenues from three primary funding sources: income from our equity warrant assets and investment securities and, to the extent declared, cash dividends paid by our subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these sources generate cash which is used by svb financial to pay operating and borrowing costs and, to the extent authorized or declared, fund dividends to holders of its capital stock and stock repurchase programs. any income derived from those financial instruments is subject to a variety of factors as discussed in the credit risks portion of this risk factors section. moreover, various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. in addition, svb financial's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a liquidation or reorganization of any of its subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. 25 table of contents anti-takeover provisions and federal laws, particularly those applicable to financial institutions, may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and/or have a material adverse effect on our stock price. as a bank holding company, we are subject to certain laws that could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. the bank holding company act of 1956, as amended, and the change in bank control act of 1978, as amended, together with federal and state regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either the federal reserve must approve or, after receiving notice, must not object to any person or entity acquiring control (as determined under the federal reserve's standards) of a bank holding company, such as svb financial, or a state member bank, such as the bank. in addition, dbo approval may be required in connection with the acquisition of control of the bank. moreover, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we may take or have taken could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. any of these laws, regulations and other provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. strategic, reputational and other risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses, or, to the extent we establish internal concentration limits to mitigate such risk, lower revenues or a slow-down in growth. our focus on certain markets or segments, including those by client industry, life-cycle stage, size and geography, increases the potential for significant losses due to concentration of risk. it may also result in lower revenues or slower growth if we choose to limit growth in certain markets or segments to mitigate concentration risk. while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated within the following general industry niches: technology, life science and healthcare, private equity and venture capital and premium wine. clients of our private banking division are primarily professionals in these industries. in particular, our technology clients generally tend to be in the industries of hardware (such as semiconductors, communications, data storage and electronics), software/internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), and energy and resource innovation. our life science and healthcare clients are concentrated in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. many of our client companies are also concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage, mid-stage or later-stage and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. in addition, growth prospects and our geographic focus on key domestic and international innovation markets, as well as premium wine markets, may lead to an increase in our concentration risk. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities as well as certain types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable to our competitors that are not exposed to similar concentration risk. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking and financial products and services to companies, investors, entrepreneurs and influencers in the innovation economy, including in particular to early-stage and mid-stage companies that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, corporate investors, crowd-funding and other evolving sources of capital. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors or other funding sources. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are: the receptivity of the capital markets; the prevalence of public equity offerings or mergers and acquisitions activity (primarily among companies within the technology and life science and healthcare industry sectors); the availability and return on alternative investments; economic conditions in the technology, life science and healthcare and private equity/venture capital industries; and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could also reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science and healthcare industry sectors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of our new clients and investor financial support to our existing clients could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or growth. we compete with other banks as well as specialty and diversified financial services companies and investment, debt, venture capital and private equity funds, some of which are larger than we are and which may offer a broader range of lending, leasing, payments, foreign currency exchange, and other financial products and advisory services to our client base. we also compete 26 table of contents with other alternative and more specialized lenders, such as online marketplace lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. moreover, we compete with fintech and non-financial services companies, many of which offer bank or bank-like products, specialized services involving the elimination of banks as intermediaries (known as disintermediation ) and/or the unbundling of banking products and services into point solutions. the activity of fintechs and support of fintechs by venture capital firms has increased significantly in recent years and are expected to continue to increase. for example, a number of fintechs have applied for bank or industrial loan charters or have partnered with existing banks to allow them to offer deposit products to their customers. there has also been significant fintech activity in the areas of credit cards, payments, foreign exchange and lending. regulatory changes, such as the recently proposed revisions to the fdic's rules on brokered deposits intended to reflect recent technological changes and innovations, may also make it easier for fintechs to partner with banks and offer deposit products. in addition, some traditional technology companies are beginning to provide financial services directly to their customers and are expected to continue to explore new ways to do so. many of these companies have fewer regulatory constraints than we do, and some have lower cost structures. some of these companies also have greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we currently have and may be able to better recruit technology talent. our competitors may focus their marketing efforts on industry sectors that we serve; for example, they may seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. we may have to agree to accept less attractive credit, pricing and other investment terms if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures and market disruption could adversely affect our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to attract and maintain, as well as meet the needs of, existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain or increase our market share. in particular, much of our success depends on our ability to attract early-stage or start-up companies as clients and to retain those companies as clients as they grow and mature successfully through the various stages of their life cycles. as a result, we adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards as well as introduce new products and services beyond industry standards in order to serve our clients, who are innovators themselves. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products or services we introduce, a failure to introduce products or services that the market demands, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new business initiatives. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally (including acquisitions such as the acquisition of svb leerink), joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. we are focused on our long-term growth and have undertaken various strategic activities and business initiatives, many of which involve activities that are new to us or, in some cases, are experimental in nature. for example, we are expanding our global presence and may engage in activities in jurisdictions where we have limited experience from a business, legal and/or regulatory perspective. with the acquisition of svb leerink, we have also expanded into new lines of business, namely, investment banking and m&amp;a advisory services. we are also expanding our payments processing capabilities to better serve our clients, including innovating new electronic payment processing solutions, developing new payments technologies, and supporting new or evolving disruptive payments systems. we may also serve clients that deal with new or evolving industries or business activities, such as digital currencies. given our evolving geographic and product diversification, and our innovative product solutions, these payment-related initiatives may subject us to, among other risks, increased business, reputational and operational risk, as well as more complex legal, regulatory and compliance costs and risks. our ability to execute strategic activities and new business initiatives successfully (such as the acquisition of svb leerink) will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new internally developed growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, meeting applicable regulatory requirements and obtaining applicable regulatory licenses or other approvals, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management's expectations, realizing the anticipated benefits of the activities, and 27 table of contents overall general market conditions. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management's attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and potential liability. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation or growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might require additional financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and other actors in the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise, could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. additionally, negative publicity regarding the industries that we focus on serving (for example, technology, private equity or venture capital) may also damage our reputation. any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business. whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the increased use of social media platforms facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation, which magnifies the potential harm to our reputation. in addition, the behavior of our employees, including with respect to our employees' use of social media, subjects us to potential negative publicity if such behavior does not align with our high standards of integrity or fails to comply with regulations or accepted practices. an ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences. we have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. this framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and reputational risks. our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting or other modeling methodologies, which involve management assumptions and judgment. in addition, our board of directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. however, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. if our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating credit losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, and managing risk. however, all models have certain limitations. for example, our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may not capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect the changing environment. further, even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. although we employ strategies to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models, they may not be effective or fully reliable. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we operate and ultimately cause planning failures or the reporting of incorrect information to our regulators. any such occurrence or the perception of such occurrence by our regulators, investors or clients could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. 28 table of contents the price of our capital stock may be volatile or may decline. the trading price of our capital stock may fluctuate or be adversely affected as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. factors that could affect the trading price of our capital stock include: actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors; actions by institutional stockholders; fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; actual or anticipated changes in interest rates; market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or exit activities of companies in the industries we serve; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. the trading price of the shares of our common stock and depositary shares representing fractional interests in our preferred stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. in some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on trading prices of capital stock and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. a significant decline in the trading price of our capital stock could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees. our capital stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. our capital stock, including our common stock and depositary shares representing fractional interests in our preferred stock, ranks junior to all of svb financial's existing and future indebtedness and other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in the event of our liquidation. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to increase our capital resources or if our total capital ratio or the total capital ratio of the bank falls below the required minimums. furthermore, our common stock is subordinate to our series a preferred stock. we do not currently pay dividends on shares of our common stock and may not do so in the future . holders of shares of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and have no current plans to do so. furthermore, the terms of our outstanding preferred stock prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends on any junior series of our capital stock, including our common stock, or from repurchasing, redeeming or acquiring such junior stock, unless we have declared and paid full dividends on our outstanding preferred stock for the most recently completed dividend period. we are also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. if we are unable to satisfy the capital requirements applicable to us for any reason, we may be limited in our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 91 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. additionally, changes in interest rates can influence the rate of principal prepayments on mortgage securities, which affects the rate of amortization of purchase premiums and discounts. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk, equity price risk, including the effect of competition on product pricing. all these risks are important considerations, but are also inherently difficult to predict and to assess the impact of each on the simulation results. consequently, simulations used to analyze the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates will differ from actual results due to differences in the timing and frequency of rate resets, the magnitude of changes in market rates, the impact of competition, fluctuating business conditions and the impact of strategies taken by management to mitigate these risks. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the sensitivity of the market valuation on earning assets and funding liabilities and the modeled 12-month projection of net interest income from changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. relevant metrics and guidelines, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors and are included in our interest rate risk policy, are monitored on an ongoing basis. interest rate risk is managed primarily through strategies involving our fixed income securities portfolio, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, to assist with managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the economic value of equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and business strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded within our balance sheet which measures the potential variability in economic value and net interest income relating solely to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position and sensitivity to market interest rates regularly. model simulation and sensitivity analysis a specific application of our simulation model involves measurement of the impact of changes in market interest rates on the economic value of equity ( eve ). eve is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities. another application of the simulation model measures the impact of changes in market interest rates on net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet size and composition as of the period-end reporting date. in the nii simulation, the level of market interest rates as well as the size and composition of the balance sheet are held constant over the simulation horizon. simulated cash flows during the scenario horizon are assumed to be replaced as they occur, which maintains the balance sheet at its current size and composition. yield and spread assumptions on cash and investment balances reflect current market rates and the shape of the yield curve. yield and spread assumptions on loans reflect recent market impacts on product pricing. similarly, we make certain deposit decay rate assumptions on demand deposits and interest-bearing deposits, which are replenished to hold the level and mix of funding liabilities constant. changes in market interest rates that affect net interest income are principally short-term interest rates and include the following benchmark indexes: (i) the national prime rate, (ii) 1-month and 3-month libor and (iii) the federal funds target rate. changes in these short-term rates impact interest earned on our variable rate loans and balances held as cash and cash equivalents. additionally, simulated changes in deposit pricing relative to changes in market rates, commonly referred to as deposit beta, generally follow overall changes in short-term interest rates, although actual changes may lag in terms of timing and magnitude. the nii simulation results presented here include an "asymmetric" beta assumption that is applied in the nii and eve simulation models for interest-bearing deposits. this reflects management expectations that deposit repricing behavior in a falling rate environment would be different than repricing behavior in a rising rate environment. this model assumes the overall beta for interest-bearing deposits in a falling rate environment would be approximately 60 percent. that is, overall changes in interest-bearing deposit rates would be approximately 60 percent of the change in short-term market rates. these repricing assumptions are reflected as changes in interest expense on interest-bearing deposit balances. 91 table of contents the following table presents our eve and nii sensitivity exposure related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points ("bps") at december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 . nii sensitivity for december 31, 2018 reflects the higher beta assumptions discussed above in both increasing and decreasing rate scenarios for purposes of comparison. modeled eve for december 31, 2018 has not been adjusted as the assumption change had an immaterial impact. change in interest rates (bps) (dollars in thousands) estimated estimated increase/(decrease) in eve estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii eve amount percent nii (1) amount percent december 31, 2019: +200 $ 9,930,270 $ (253,659 ) (2.5 )% $ 2,528,158 $ 421,358 20.0 % +100 10,056,711 (127,218 ) (1.2 ) 2,314,686 207,886 9.9 10,183,929 2,106,800 -100 10,138,558 (45,371 ) (0.4 ) 1,927,801 (178,999 ) (8.5 ) -200 10,000,585 (183,344 ) (1.8 ) 1,760,283 (346,517 ) (16.4 ) december 31, 2018: +200 $ 9,348,408 $ 504,405 5.7 % $ 2,583,577 $ 499,257 24.0 % +100 9,090,781 246,778 2.8 2,334,040 249,720 12.0 8,844,003 2,084,320 -100 8,470,501 (373,502 ) (4.2 ) 1,840,190 (244,130 ) (11.7 ) -200 7,590,973 (1,253,030 ) (14.2 ) 1,543,150 (541,170 ) (26.0 ) (1) estimated nii sensitivity for december 31, 2018 has been revised from prior period presentations to reflect updated assumptions. economic value of equity the estimated eve in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis and a multi-path lattice-based valuation. both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates to determine discounting factors on projected cash flows. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as the composition of earning assets and funding liabilities change (including the impact of changes in the value of interest rate derivatives), as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant market conditions, competition or business circumstances. these calculations do not reflect forecast changes in our balance sheet or changes we may make to reduce our eve exposure as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk, basis risk and yield spread compression, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting eve and nii estimates are not intended to represent and should not be construed to represent our estimate of the underlying eve or forecast of nii. our base eve as of december 31, 2019 increased $1.3 billion from december 31, 2018, driven by overall balance sheet growth. for the period ended december 31, 2019, as compared to december 31, 2018, fixed income investments in our afs and htm portfolios increased by $4.6 billion, total loan balances increased by $4.8 billion and total deposits increased by $12.4 billion. the growth of $12.4 billion in total deposits consisted of $1.7 billion in noninterest bearing deposits and $10.7 billion in interest-bearing deposits. the significantly larger increase in the growth of our interest-bearing deposits relative to our loan growth, in conjunction with the increase in rates paid on our interest-bearing deposits during 2019, results in a downward impact on our eve in the +100 bps and +200 bps rate shock scenarios. as of december 31, 2019, interest-bearing deposits represented 63 percent of total loan balances compared to 36 percent at december 31, 2018. in addition, purchases in fixed income investments during 2019 consisted primarily of mortgage-backed securities which have lower prepayment rates during increasing interest rate environments also resulting in a downward impact on eve in the +100 bps and +200 bps rate shock scenarios reflective of lower reinvestment opportunities in an increasing interest rate environment. the downward eve impacts in the +100 bps and +200 bps rate shock scenarios from the interest-bearing deposit growth and increase in the mortgage-backed securities are partially offset by the upward eve impact from loan growth. 92 table of contents the overall change in mix in the composition of our balance sheet as discussed, results in an eve profile that experiences negative changes in both the upward and downward rate shock environments, and represents a typical profile for a balance sheet that includes primarily mortgage-backed fixed income investments and interest-bearing deposits. 12-month net interest income simulation nii sensitivity is measured as the percentage change in projected 12-month net interest income earned in +/-100 and +/-200 basis point interest rate shock scenarios compared to a base scenario where balances and interest rates are held constant over the forecast horizon. at december 31, 2019, nii sensitivity was 9.9 percent in the +100 bps interest rate scenario, compared to 12.0 percent at december 31, 2018. our nii sensitivity in the +200 bps interest rate shock scenario was 20.0 percent compared to 24.0 percent at december 31, 2018. nii sensitivity in the -100 bps scenario of negative 8.5 percent was lower at december 31, 2019, compared to a negative 11.7 percent at december 31, 2018. the -200 bps scenario currently indicates a lower percentage change in nii of negative 16.4 percent at december 31, 2019, compared to negative 26.0 percent at december 31, 2018. the december 31, 2019 nii sensitivity percentages are inclusive of the income or expense associated with interest rate swaps that are part of our macro hedging strategy initiated in 2019 as part of the effort to reduce the impact of decreasing rates on nii. the changes in nii sensitivity are primarily the result of the changes in balance sheet composition, combined with the impact of hedges in the respective parallel rate shock scenarios. our base case static 12-month nii forecast at december 31, 2019 increased compared to december 31, 2018 by $22 million. this change is primarily the result of growth in the balance sheet as explained above that has taken place year-to-date combined with an overall relatively lower rate environment compared to last year. specifically, significant growth in interest-bearing deposit balances has been offset by corresponding growth in loan and fixed income investment security balances. in the 12-month nii simulation, the interest income benefit of growth in the balance sheet was softened by an increase in interest expense associated with growth in interest-bearing deposit balances along with lower overall rate levels across the yield curve. costs associated with the macro hedging strategy swap portfolio also contributed to the slower growth in the simulated 12-month nii relative to overall balance sheet growth. a majority of our loans are indexed to prime and libor. in the positive parallel simulated rate shock scenarios, interest income on assets that are tied to variable rate indexes, primarily our variable rate loans, are expected to benefit our base 12-month nii projections. the opposite is true for negative rate shock scenarios. the 12-month nii simulations include repricing assumptions on our interest-bearing deposit products which we set at our discretion based on client needs and our overall funding mix. repricing of interest-bearing deposits impacts estimated interest expense. as noted previously, repricing deposit rates are generally assumed to approximately 60 percent of the amount of simulated changes in short-term market interest rates. the simulation model used in the above analysis incorporates embedded floors on loans, where present, in our interest rate scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from moving below zero percent in the down rate scenarios. the embedded floors are also a factor in the up rate scenarios to the extent a simulated increase in rates is needed before floored rates are cleared. in addition, we assume different deposit balance decay rates based on a historical deposit study of our clients. these assumptions may change in future periods based on changes in client behavior and at management's discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our actual sensitivity overall. 93 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk please read the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and supplementary data as presented in item 8 of this report. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our senior management has in the past and might in the future make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media, and others. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. broadly speaking, forward-looking statements include: (1) projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, capital expenditures, capital structure or other financial items (2) descriptions of strategic initiatives, plans or objectives of our management for future operations, including pending acquisitions (3) descriptions of products, services, and industry sectors (4) forecasts of future economic performance (5) descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing in this report, we make forward-looking statements discussing our management's expectations about: (1) future changes in our average loan balances and their impact on our net interest margin (2) future changes in short-term interest rates and their impact on our earnings (3) future changes in private label investment product balances due to transferring of private label investment operations from silicon valley bank to its wholly owned broker-dealer subsidiary (4) future revenue of alliant partners (5) future investment gains or losses from private equity and venture capital fund investments (6) future changes in trust preferred securities distributions expense due to changes in hedging interest rates (7) future changes in market prices of the underlying common stock and its impact on future warrant income of those companies (8) future changes in allowance for loan losses balance (9) future cost of funds savings from raising capital through real estate investment trust (10) future tax benefits from real estate investment trust (11) future common stock repurchases you can identify these and other forward-looking statements by using such words as: "becoming," "may," "will," "should," "predicts," "potential," "continue," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "intends," or using the negative of such words, or comparable terminology. although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, and we have based these expectations on our beliefs, as well as our assumptions, such expectations may prove to be incorrect. our actual results of operations and financial performance could differ significantly from those expressed in or implied by our management's forward-looking statements. 17 for information about factors that could cause actual results to differ from the expectations stated in the forward-looking statements, see the subsection titled "risk factors" at the end of this section. we urge investors to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this discussion and analysis. all subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this filing are made only as of the date of this filing. we do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. certain reclassifications have been made to our prior years' results to conform to 2002 presentations. such reclassifications had no effect on our results of operations or stockholders' equity. critical accounting policies marketable equity securities investments in marketable equity securities include warrants for shares of publicly-traded companies and investments in shares of publicly-traded companies. equity securities in our warrant, direct equity, and venture capital fund portfolios generally become marketable when a portfolio company completes an initial public offering on a publicly-reported market, or is acquired by a publicly-traded company. our merchant banking marketable warrant and equity securities totaled $0.8 million at december 31, 2002 and $2.5 million at december 31, 2001. marketable equity securities related to taurus, l.p. and libra, l.p. totaled approximately $7.1 million, see "item 1. business acquisitions." these instruments are classified as available-for-sale and are accounted for at fair value. we recognized gains from the disposition of client warrants in our consolidated statements of income of $1.7 million in 2002, $8.5 million in 2001, and $86.3 million in 2000. unrealized gains or losses on warrant and equity investment securities are recorded upon the establishment of a readily determinable fair value of the underlying security, as defined by statement of financial accounting standard ("sfas") no. 115, "accounting for certain investments in debt and equity instruments." 1. unrealized gains or losses after applicable taxes, on available-for-sale marketable equity securities that result from initial public offerings are excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders' equity. unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities become realized and are charged against earnings when it is determined that an other than temporary decline in value has occurred. further, the cost basis of the individual security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis. we are often contractually restricted from selling equity securities subsequent to the portfolio company's initial public offering. gains or losses on these marketable equity instruments are recorded in our consolidated statements of income in the period the underlying securities are sold to a third party. 2. gains or losses on marketable warrant and equity investment securities that result from a portfolio company being acquired by a publicly-traded company are marked to market when the acquisition occurs. the resulting gains or losses are recognized into income on that date, in accordance with emerging issues task force, issue no. 91-5, "nonmonetary exchange of cost-method investments." further fluctuations in the market value of these marketable equity instruments, prior to eventual sale, are excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders' equity. upon the sale of these equity securities to a third party, gains and losses, which are measured from the acquisition price, are recognized in our consolidated statements of income. notwithstanding the foregoing, a decline in the fair value of any of these securities that is considered other than temporary, is recorded in our consolidated statements of income in the period the impairment occurs. 18 we consider our marketable equity securities accounting policies to be critical, as the timing and amount of income, if any, from these instruments typically depend upon factors beyond our control. these factors include the general condition of the public equity markets, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, fluctuations in the market prices of the underlying common stock of these companies, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. hence, the amount of income we realize from these equity instruments in future periods may vary materially from the current unrealized amount of $0.7 million and are likely to vary materially from period to period. non-marketable equity securities we invest in non-marketable equity securities in several ways: through the exercise of warrants obtained in the normal course of lending by direct purchases of preferred or common stock in privately-held companies by capital contributions to venture capital funds, which in turn, make investments in preferred or common stock of privately held companies through our venture capital fund, silicon valley bancventures, l.p., which makes investments in preferred or common stock of privately held companies through our fund of funds, svb strategic investors fund, l.p., which makes investments in venture capital funds, which in turn invest in privately held companies unexercised warrant securities are recorded at a nominal value on our consolidated balance sheets. they are carried at this value until they become marketable or expire. a summary of our accounting policies for other non-marketable equity securities is presented in the following table. a complete description of the accounting policies follows the table. private equity and venture capital fund investments wholly-owned by silicon cost basis less identified impairment, if any owned by silicon valley bancventures, l.p. and svb strategic investors fund, l.p. investment accounting, adjust to fair value on a quarterly basis through the statement of income non-marketable venture capital fund investments and other direct private equity investments wholly-owned by silicon totaled $31.6 million at december 31, 2002 and $30.7 million at december 31, 2001 (excluding our ownership interest in our managed funds, svb strategic investors fund, l.p. and silicon valley bancventures, l.p., which are described below.) we record these investments on a cost basis as our interests are considered minor because we own less than 5% of the company and have no influence over the company's operating and financial policies. our cost basis in each investment is reduced by returns until the cost basis of the individual investment is fully recovered. returns in excess of the cost basis are recorded as investment gains in noninterest income. the values of the investments are reviewed at least quarterly, giving consideration to the facts and circumstances of each individual investment. management's review of private equity investments typically includes the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, and exit strategies. a decline in the fair value that is considered other than temporary is recorded in our consolidated statements of income in the period the impairment occurs. any estimated loss is recorded in noninterest income as investment losses. investments held by silicon valley bancventures, l.p. totaled $10.0 million at december 31, 2002 and $5.1 million at december 31, 2001 and are recorded at fair value using investment accounting rules. the investments consist of stock in private companies that are not traded on a public market 19 and are subject to restrictions on resale. these investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by the general partner. the valuation generally remains at cost until such time that there is significant evidence of a change in values based upon consideration of the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategies, and other pertinent information. the general partner, silicon valley bancventures, inc. is owned and controlled by silicon and has an ownership interest of 10.7% in silicon valley bancventures, l.p. therefore, silicon valley bancventures, l.p. is fully consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in our consolidated statements of income. the portion of any gains or losses belonging to the limited partners is reflected in minority interest and adjusts silicon's income to its percentage ownership. the svb strategic investors fund, l.p. portfolio consists primarily of investments in venture capital funds. these funds totaled $22.1 million at december 31, 2002 and $16.5 million at december 31, 2001, which are recorded at fair value using investment accounting rules. the carrying value of the investments is determined by the general partner based on the percentage of svb strategic investors fund, l.p.'s interest in the total fair market value as provided by each venture capital fund investment. svb strategic investors, llc generally utilizes the fair values assigned to the underlying portfolio investments by the management of the venture capital funds. the estimated fair value of the investments is determined after giving consideration to the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategy, and other pertinent information. the general partner, svb strategic investors, llc, is owned and controlled by silicon and has an ownership interest of 11.1% in svb strategic investors fund, l.p. therefore, svb strategic investors fund, l.p. is fully consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the venture capital fund investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in our consolidated statements of income. the limited partner's share of any gains or losses is reflected in minority interest and adjusts silicon's income to its percentage ownership. the following tables present the carrying value of our non-marketable venture capital and other private equity investments at and for the year ended december 31, 2002. (as consolidated) wholly-owned equity investments managed funds activities venture capital funds other private equity silicon valley bancventures, l.p. svb strategic investors fund, l.p. total (dollars in thousands) fund size $ 56,100 $ 135,334 * $ 191,434 commitments $ 54,558 $ 14,954 14,176 108,189 191,877 capital investment 36,074 14,954 14,176 31,315 96,519 carrying value 24,740 6,834 9,986 22,082 63,642 net investment losses (1,251 ) (2,083 ) (734 ) (5,717 ) (9,785 ) (net of minority interest ownership of managed funds) wholly-owned equity investments managed funds activities venture capital funds other private equity silicon valley bancventures, l.p. svb strategic investors fund, l.p. total (dollars in thousands) commitments $ 54,558 $ 14,954 $ 6,000 $ 15,000 * $ 90,512 capital investment 36,074 14,954 1,980 3,900 56,908 carrying value 24,740 6,834 1,068 2,448 35,090 net investment losses (1,251 ) (2,083 ) (78 ) (634 ) (4,046 ) management fee revenue 1,082 1,323 2,405 * effective january 1, 2003, svb strategic investors fund, l.p. reduced the total capital that can be called to $121.8 million as a result of the reductions in the size of the underlying venture capital fund investments. our committed capital that can be called was reduced to $13.5 million. 20 the following tables present the carrying value of our non-marketable venture capital and other private equity investments at and for the year ended december 31, 2001. (as consolidated) wholly-owned equity investments managed funds activities venture capital funds other private equity silicon valley bancventures, l.p. svb strategic investors fund, l.p. total (dollars in thousands) fund size $ 56,100 $ 135,334 $ 191,434 commitments $ 54,516 $ 14,354 8,600 111,000 188,470 capital investment 31,332 14,354 8,600 19,884 74,170 carrying value 22,170 8,562 5,144 16,477 52,353 net investment losses (1,005 ) (4,933 ) (3,456 ) (3,002 ) (12,396 ) (net of minority interest ownership of managed funds) wholly-owned equity investments managed funds activities venture capital funds other private equity silicon valley bancventures, l.p. svb strategic investors fund, l.p. total (dollars in thousands) commitments $ 54,516 $ 14,354 $ 6,000 $ 15,000 $ 89,870 capital investment 31,332 14,354 1,501 3,000 50,187 carrying value 22,170 8,562 550 1,826 33,108 net investment losses (1,005 ) (4,933 ) (370 ) (333 ) (6,641 ) management fee revenue 1,082 1,323 2,405 we consider our non-marketable equity securities accounting policies to be critical, as the timing and amount of gain or losses, if any, from these instruments depend upon factors beyond our control. these factors include the general condition of the public equity markets, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. therefore, we cannot predict future gains or losses with any degree of accuracy and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. in addition, the valuation of non-marketable equity securities included in our financial statements at december 31, 2002 represents our best interpretation of the underlying equity securities performance at this time. because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, the estimated values of these securities may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market for the securities existed, and the differences could be material. future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investment's carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future. allowance for loan losses we consider our accounting policy relating to the estimation of the allowance for loan losses to be critical as it involves material estimates by our management and is particularly susceptible to significant changes in the near term. we define credit risk as the probability of sustaining a loss because other parties to the financial instrument fail to perform in accordance with the terms of the contract. through the administration of loan policies and monitoring of the loan portfolio, our management seeks to reduce such credit risks. while we follow underwriting and credit monitoring procedures, which we believe are appropriate in growing and managing the loan portfolio, in the event of nonperformance by these other parties, our potential exposure to credit losses could significantly affect our consolidated financial position and earnings. 21 the allowance for loan losses is established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense to provide for credit risk. our allowance for loan losses is established for loan losses not yet realized. the process of anticipating loan losses is imprecise. our management applies the following evaluation process to our loan portfolio to estimate the required allowance for loan losses. we maintain a systematic process for the evaluation of individual loans and pools of loans for inherent risk of loan losses. on a quarterly basis, each loan in our portfolio is assigned a credit risk-rating. credit risk-ratings are assigned on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 representing loans with a low risk of nonpayment, 9 representing loans with the highest risk of nonpayment, and 10 representing loans, which have been charged-off. this credit risk-rating evaluation process includes, but is not limited to, consideration of such factors as payment status, the financial condition of the borrower, borrower compliance with loan covenants, underlying collateral values, potential loan concentrations, and general economic conditions. our policies require a committee of senior management to review credit relationships that exceed specific dollar values, at least quarterly. our review process evaluates the appropriateness of the credit risk rating and allocation of allowance for loan losses, as well as other account management functions. in addition, our management receives and approves an analysis for all impaired loans, as defined by the statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 114 "accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan." the allowance for loan losses is allocated based on a formula allocation for similarly risk-rated loans, or for specific risk issues, which suggest a probable loss factor exceeding the formula allocation for a specific loan, or for individual impaired loans as determined by sfas no. 114. our evaluation process was designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. we assess the risk of losses inherent in the loan portfolio by utilizing modeling techniques. for this purpose, we have developed a statistical model based on historical loan loss migration to estimate an appropriate allowance for outstanding loan balances. in addition, we apply macro and contingent allocations to the results of the aforementioned model to ascertain the total allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of the allowance for loan losses, relies, to a great extent, on the judgment and experience of our management. historical loan loss migration model we use the historical loan loss migration model as a basis for determining expected loan loss factors by credit risk-rating category. the effectiveness of the historical loan loss migration model is predicated on the theory that historical trends are predictive of future experience. specifically, the model calculates the likelihood and rate of a loan in one risk-rating category moving one category lower using loan data from our portfolio. we analyze the historical loan loss migration trend by compiling gross loan loss data and by credit risk rating for the four-quarter period preceding the current period end. each of the loans charged-off over the four-quarter period is assigned a credit risk rating at the period end of each of the preceding quarters. on a quarter-by-quarter basis, the model calculates charged-off loans as a percentage of current period end loans by credit risk-rating category. these percentages are weighted, based on the age of the data, and are aggregated to estimate our loan loss factors. these expected loan loss factors are ultimately applied to the current period end aggregate outstanding loan balances to provide an estimation of the allowance for loan losses. macro and contingent allocations additionally, we apply a contingent allocation to the results of this model. our contingent allocation acknowledges that unfunded credit obligations can result in future losses. unfunded credit obligations at each quarter end are allocated to credit risk-rating categories in accordance with the client's credit risk-rating. we provide for the risk of loss on unfunded credit obligations by allocating fixed credit risk-rating factors to our unfunded credit obligations. 22 a macro allocation is calculated each quarter based upon an assessment of the risks that may lead to a loan loss experience different from our historical results. these risks are aggregated to become our macro allocation. based on management's prediction or estimates of changing risks in the lending environment, the macro allocation may vary significantly from period to period and includes but is not limited to consideration of the following factors: (1) changes in lending policies and procedures, including underwriting standards and collections, charge-off and recovery practices (2) changes and development in national and local economic business conditions, including the market and economic condition of our clients' industry sectors (3) changes in the nature of our loan portfolio (4) changes in experience, ability and depth of lending management and staff (5) changes in the trend of the volume and severity of past due and classified loans (6) changes in the trend of the volume of nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructurings and other loan modifications finally, we compute several modified versions of the model, which provide additional assurance that the statistical results of the historical loan loss migration model are reasonable. our chief credit officer and chief financial officer evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses based on the results of the historical loan loss migration model. in addition to risk-rating every loan in our portfolio, our management concluded that our allowance for loan and lease losses at december 31, 2002 was appropriate in consideration of the following factors: (7) a decreased risk of severe future losses from the early-stage product loan portfolio (8) a decreased risk of loan losses resulting from client instigated corporate fraud, due to the enforcement of recent government corporate governance regulations (9) an increase of $31.0 million in our average loan balance between september 30, 2002 and december 31, 2002 (10) a continued weakness in the u.s. economy (11) a declining venture capital fund investment into our clients in our core industry sectors (12) a continued volatility in global stock markets indices we consider our allowance for loan losses at december 31, 2002 to be adequate but not excessive and to be our best estimate using the historical loan loss experience and our perception of variables potentially leading to deviation from the historical loss experience. goodwill as discussed in " quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. 20 results of operations earnings summary we reported net income in 2003 of $12.0 million, as compared to net income of $53.4 million in 2002 and $88.2 million in 2001. diluted earnings per common share totaled $0.32 in 2003, as compared to $1.18 in 2002, and $1.79 in 2001. return on average equity in 2003 was 2.4%, as compared to 8.5% in 2002, and 13.5% in 2001. return on average assets was 0.3% in 2003, as compared to 1.4% in 2002, and 2.0% in 2001. the decrease in net income between 2002 and 2003, primarily resulted from an increase of $76.3 million in noninterest expense. the increase in noninterest expense was principally due to the following factors: (1) impairment of goodwill charges aggregating $63.0 million related to alliant partners, and (2) an increase in expense associated with our incentive compensation program, which we believe was necessary to retain our professional talent in an improving economic environment. additionally, due to a decrease in the weighted-average prime rate from 4.7% in 2002 to 4.1% in 2003, we earned lower interest income from our investment securities and loan portfolios, which resulted in a decline in net interest income. however, our provision for loan and lease loss expense decreased by $10.1 million between 2002 and 2003, largely due to a significant loan loss recovery in the third quarter of 2003 and our improved credit quality. the decrease in net income for 2002 as compared to 2001 was primarily attributable to a decline in both net interest income and noninterest income, partially offset by decreases in both provision for loan losses and income tax expense. the major components of net income and changes in these components are summarized in the following table for the years ended december 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, and are discussed in more detail on the following pages. years ended december 31, 2003 2002 2001 % change 2003 / 2002 % change 2002 / 2001 (dollars in thousands) net interest income $ 188,884 $ 194,708 $ 262,985 (3.0 ) % (26.0 )% provision for loan losses (6,223 ) 3,882 16,724 (260.3 ) (76.8 ) noninterest income 75,060 67,858 70,833 10.6 (4.2 ) noninterest expense 262,687 186,374 183,488 40.9 1.6 minority interest 7,689 7,767 7,546 (1.0 ) 2.9 income before income tax expense 15,169 80,077 141,152 (81.1 ) (43.3 ) income tax expense 3,192 26,719 52,998 (88.1 ) (49.6 ) net income $ 11,977 $ 53,358 $ 88,154 (77.6 )% (39.5 )% net interest income and margin net interest income is defined as the difference between interest earned (primarily on loans, investment securities, federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell) and interest paid on funding sources (such as deposits and borrowings). net interest income is our principal source of revenue. net interest margin is defined as the amount of net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average yield earned on interest-earning assets is the amount of taxable-equivalent interest income expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average rate paid on funding sources is defined as interest expense as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. 21 the following table sets forth average assets, liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity, interest income and interest expense, average yields and rates, and the composition of our net interest margin for the years ended december 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001. years ended december 31, 2003 2002 2001 average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate (dollars in thousands) interest-earning assets: federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell(1) $ 385,169 $ 4,530 1.2 % $ 153,185 $ 2,865 1.9 % $ 509,965 $ 25,421 5.0 % investment securities: taxable 1,297,920 42,789 3.3 1,376,977 46,585 3.4 1,522,785 79,245 5.2 non-taxable(2) 142,597 9,613 6.7 177,058 10,606 6.0 294,594 16,616 5.6 loans:(3)(4)(5) commercial 1,508,961 134,589 8.9 1,508,204 141,697 9.4 1,459,748 167,850 11.5 real estate construction and term 98,720 5,989 6.1 102,479 7,245 7.1 83,389 8,819 10.6 consumer and other 192,341 8,192 4.3 151,613 7,298 4.8 113,821 8,190 7.2 total loans 1,800,022 148,770 8.3 1,762,296 156,240 8.9 1,656,958 184,859 11.2 total interest-earning assets 3,625,708 205,702 5.7 3,469,516 216,296 6.2 3,984,302 306,141 7.7 cash and due from banks 192,591 182,400 239,571 allowance for loan losses (72,044 ) (74,845 ) (76,287 ) goodwill 91,992 98,252 24,955 other assets 202,276 190,919 199,459 total assets $ 4,040,523 $ 3,866,242 $ 4,372,000 funding sources: interest-bearing liabilities: now deposits $ 23,447 105 0.4 $ 33,567 220 0.7 $ 42,037 381 0.9 regular money market deposits 332,632 1,824 0.5 288,238 2,751 1.0 269,886 3,034 1.1 bonus money market deposits 673,982 3,686 0.5 614,378 5,855 1.0 733,412 8,580 1.2 time deposits 485,199 3,468 0.7 610,996 7,403 1.2 792,031 24,871 3.1 short-term borrowing 9,217 257 2.8 33,824 1,083 3.2 10,682 265 2.5 long-term debt 105,477 1,087 1.0 23,769 564 2.4 6,652 210 3.2 trust preferred securities(6) 24,490 3,026 12.4 total interest-bearing liabilities 1,654,444 13,453 0.8 1,604,772 17,876 1.1 1,854,700 37,341 2.0 portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 1,971,264 1,864,744 2,129,602 total funding sources 3,625,708 13,453 0.4 3,469,516 17,876 0.5 3,984,302 37,341 0.9 noninterest-bearing funding sources: demand deposits 1,762,334 1,516,337 1,744,359 other liabilities 72,073 44,316 52,023 trust preferred securities(6) 19,193 38,667 38,611 minority interest 37,481 31,145 30,446 stockholders equity 494,998 631,005 651,861 portion used to fund interest-earning assets (1,971,264 ) (1,864,744 ) (2,129,602 ) total liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity $ 4,040,523 $ 3,866,242 $ 4,372,000 net interest income and margin $ 192,249 5.3 % $ 198,420 5.7 % $ 268,800 6.8 % total deposits $ 3,277,594 $ 3,063,516 $ 3,581,725 (1) includes average interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $783, $609, and $568 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. (2) interest income on nontaxable investments is presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. these adjustments were $3,365, $3,712, and $5,815 for the years ended december 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. (3) average loans include average nonaccrual loans of $16,089, $19,602, and $21,565 in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. (4) average loans are net of average unearned income of $12,573, $11,651, and $7,669 in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. (5) loan interest income includes loan fees of $36,348, $36,701, and $37,407 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. (6) adoption of fin no. 46 and sfas no. 150 in the latter half of 2003 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense from noninterest expense to interest expense on a prospective basis. additionally, the adoption of fin no. 46 and sfas no. 150 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities from noninterest bearing funding sources to interest-bearing liabilities on a prospective basis. prior to adoption of fin no. 46 and sfas no. 150, in accordance with accounting rules in effect at that time, the company recorded trust preferred securities distribution expense as noninterest expense. on october 30, 2003, $50.0 million in cumulative 7.0% trust preferred securities were issued through a newly formed special purpose trust, svb capital ii. we received $51.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of 7.0% junior subordinated debentures to svb capital ii. a portion of the net proceeds were used to redeem the existing $40.0 million of 8.25% trust preferred securities. approximately $1.3 million of deferred issuance costs related to redemption of the $40.0 million 8.25% trust preferred securities were included in interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2003. 22 net interest income is affected by changes in the amount and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as volume change. net interest income is also affected by changes in yields earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as rate change. the following table sets forth changes in interest income and interest expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. the table also reflects the amount of simultaneous changes attributable to both volume and rate for the years indicated. for this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated in proportion to the percentage changes in average volume and average rate. changes relating to investments in non-taxable municipal securities are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. 2003 compared to 2002 increase (decrease) due to changes in 2002 compared to 2001 (decrease) increase due to changes in volume rate total volume rate total (dollars in thousands) interest income: federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell $ 3,102 $ (1,437 ) $ 1,665 $ (11,905 ) $ (10,651 ) $ (22,556 ) investment securities (4,696 ) (93 ) (4,789 ) (14,099 ) (24,571 ) (38,670 ) loans 3,442 (10,912 ) (7,470 ) 11,391 (40,010 ) (28,619 ) increase (decrease) in interest income 1,848 (12,442 ) (10,594 ) (14,613 ) (75,232 ) (89,845 ) interest expense: now deposits (52 ) (63 ) (115 ) (69 ) (92 ) (161 ) regular money market deposits 426 (1,353 ) (927 ) 171 (454 ) (283 ) bonus money market deposits 599 (2,768 ) (2,169 ) (1,201 ) (1,524 ) (2,725 ) time deposits (1,328 ) (2,607 ) (3,935 ) (4,766 ) (12,702 ) (17,468 ) short-term borrowings (701 ) (125 ) (826 ) 724 94 818 long-term debt 1,007 (484 ) 523 422 (68 ) 354 trust preferred securities 3,026 3,026 increase (decrease) in interest expense 2,977 (7,400 ) (4,423 ) (4,719 ) (14,746 ) (19,465 ) decrease in net interest income $ (1,129 ) $ (5,042 ) $ (6,171 ) $ (9,894 ) $ (60,486 ) $ (70,380 ) 2003 compared to 2002 net interest income net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis totaled $192.2 million in 2003, a decrease of $6.2 million, or 3.1%, from $198.4 million in 2002. the decrease in net interest income was due to a $10.6 million, or 4.9%, decline in interest income, offset by a $4.4 million, or 24.7%, decrease in interest expense over the comparable prior-year period. interest expense in 2003 included $3.0 million relating to the sfas no. 150 and fin no. 46-mandated classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense as interest expense, for the latter half of 2003. for periods prior to june 30, 2003, trust preferred securities distribution expense was classified as noninterest expense, and therefore did not impact the net interest margin. impact of declining market interest rates on interest-earning assets throughout the current decreasing market interest rate environment, we implemented numerous measures to minimize the impact to our net interest margin. these measures included diversifying the product mix in the investment portfolio to higher-yielding, high-quality assets and reducing rates paid on interest-bearing deposits. additionally, we have increased the duration of our investment securities portfolio by replacing certain short-term, lower yielding securities with longer-term, higher-yielding securities such as collateralized mortgage obligations, thereby taking advantage of a steeper interest rate curve. overall, the duration of our investment securities portfolio increased to approximately 1.7 years in 2003, from approximately 1.5 years in 2002. 23 the $10.6 million decrease in interest income for 2003, as compared to 2002, was the result of a $12.4 million unfavorable rate variance associated with each component of interest-earning assets, partially offset by a $1.8 million favorable volume variance. market interest rates decreased slightly during 2003, which caused the weighted average prime rate to decline by 55 basis points from 4.7% in 2002. consequently, the yield on loans decreased by 60 basis points in 2003 to 8.3% from 8.9% in 2002. in 2003, we incurred a $10.9 million unfavorable rate variance associated with our loan portfolio. floating rate loans, which represent approximately 81.2% of our total loan portfolio, produced lower interest income due to a lower average prime rate in 2003 compared to 2002. the average yield on federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell also decreased due to the decline in market interest rates, from 1.9% in 2002 to 1.2% in 2003, which caused a $1.4 million unfavorable rate variance. net increase in interest-earning assets total average interest-earning assets in 2003 increased $156.2 million, or 4.5% as compared to the prior year. the increase in total average interest-earning assets was principally funded by an increase in average noninterest-bearing deposits of $246.0 million, or 16.2%, and an increase in average long-term debt of $81.7 million, or 343.8%, offset by a decrease in average stockholders equity of $136.0 million, or 21.6%. the increase in average long-term debt was principally due to the issuance of $150.0 million of zero coupon convertible debt in may 2003. the net proceeds from the issuance of the convertible debt were largely used to repurchase our common stock, which resulted in the aforementioned decrease in average stockholders equity. average loans increased $37.7 million, or 2.1%, in 2003, as compared to 2002, resulting in a $3.4 million favorable volume variance. in 2003, we grew our average loan portfolio to a record level by continuing to focus on attracting middle-market and mature corporate technology and life sciences clients, which we believe are under-served by our competitors. we experienced loan growth across most of the industry sectors we serve. additionally, our new loans continue to be subject to our existing underwriting practices. we expect further growth in our loan balances to bolster our net interest margin since it will shift liquid interest-earning assets from our investment portfolio, which currently yields 3.6%, to loans with yields ranging from approximately 4.3% to 8.9%. we expect modest loan growth to continue throughout 2004. average investment securities for 2003 decreased $113.5 million, or 7.3%, as compared to 2002, resulting in a $4.7 million unfavorable volume variance. the decrease in average investment securities was primarily concentrated in short-term investments, partially offset by an increase in longer-term collateralized mortgage obligations. average federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell increased $232.0 million, or 151.4% in 2003, as compared to the prior year, resulting in a $3.1 million favorable volume variance. this increase was primarily due to a change in the investment portfolio mix. we expect to continue the trend of managing federal funds sold and overnight repurchase agreements at appropriate levels. the yield on average interest-earning assets decreased 60 basis points in 2003 from the prior year. this decrease primarily resulted from a decline in short-term market interest rates; thus, we earned lower yields on each component of our interest-earning assets. decrease in interest expense total interest expense in 2003 decreased $4.4 million from 2002. this decrease was due to a favorable rate variance of $7.4 million, partially offset by an unfavorable volume variance of $3.0 million. the favorable rate variance between 2002 and 2003 primarily resulted from a reduction in the average rates paid on all of our interest-bearing deposits, particularly those rates paid on our time deposit and bonus money market deposit products. the unfavorable volume variance was due in large part to the sfas no. 150-mandated classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense of $3.0 million as interest expense, for the latter half of 2003. trust preferred securities distribution expense was previously classified as noninterest expense. of the $3.0 million in trust preferred securities distribution expense, approximately $1.3 million related to the 24 recognition of deferred issuance costs in the fourth quarter of 2003, due to the redemption of our 8.25% trust preferred securities. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement to swap our 7.0% fixed payment on junior subordinated debentures for a variable rate based on the london inter-bank offer rate (libor) plus a spread. we expect this swap to have a positive impact on our cost of funds in 2004. additionally, we experienced an unfavorable volume variance related to long-term debt of $1.0 million. in the second quarter of 2003, we issued $150.0 million of zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes, with a maturity of june 15, 2008. although no interest is paid on the notes, we experienced an increase in interest expense due to amortization of the convertible debt issuance costs. the overall unfavorable volume variance caused primarily by long-term debt and trust preferred securities was partially offset by average time deposits, which decreased from $611.0 million in 2002 to $485.1 million in 2003, causing a $1.3 million favorable volume variance. the average cost of funds paid on average interest-bearing liabilities in 2003 was 0.8% down from 1.1% in 2002. this decrease in the average cost of funds was largely due to a decrease of 50 basis points on the average rates paid on both our money market deposit and time deposit products. 2002 compared to 2001 net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis totaled $198.4 million in 2002, a decrease of $70.4 million, or 26.2%, from $268.8 million in 2001. the decrease in net interest income was due to an $89.8 million, or 29.3%, decline in interest income, offset by a $19.5 million, or 52.1%, decrease in interest expense over the comparable prior-year period. in 2002, we implemented numerous measures to minimize the impact of the decline in market interest rates. these measures included diversifying the product mix in the investment portfolio to higher-yielding, high-quality assets, reducing rates paid on interest-bearing deposits, and embedding minimum interest rate floors into client loan agreements. we also increased the average expected life of investments in our portfolio by replacing some assets from lower-yielding short-term securities to higher-yielding longer-term securities, thereby taking advantage of the steeper interest rate curve. overall, the expected average life of portfolio investments increased to approximately 1.5 years, as compared to less than 1 year in 2001. interest income the $89.8 million decrease in interest income for 2002, as compared to 2001, was the result of a $14.6 million unfavorable volume variance, combined with a $75.2 million unfavorable rate variance. the $14.6 million unfavorable volume variance resulted from a $514.8 million, or 12.9%, decrease in average interest-earning assets over the comparable prior-year period. the decrease in average interest-earning assets was primarily concentrated in highly-liquid federal funds sold, and securities purchased under agreement to resell, which decreased $356.8 million, and investment securities, which decreased $263.3 million. these decreases were partially offset by $105.3 million increase in loans. average loans increased $105.3 million, or 6.4%, in 2002, as compared to 2001, resulting in an $11.4 million favorable volume variance. at december 31, 2002, we grew our loan portfolio to a record level by refocusing on attracting middle-market and mature corporate technology and life sciences clients, which we believe are under-served by our competitors. in 2002, we experienced loan growth across most of the industry sectors we serve. average investment securities for 2002 decreased $263.3 million, or 14.5%, as compared to 2001, resulting in a $14.1 million unfavorable volume variance. the decrease in average investment securities was primarily centered in u.s. agency securities, which decreased $291.0 million. this decrease resulted from declines in our average deposit balances and our common stock repurchase programs. deposit balances declined in 2001 as our clients continued to experience reduced liquidity due to the slowdown in the capital markets and lower levels of venture capital fund investment. however, quarterly average deposit balances stabilized during 2002. 25 average federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell in 2002 decreased $356.8 million, or 70.0%, as compared to the prior year, resulting in an $11.9 million unfavorable volume variance. this decline was primarily due to a change in the investment portfolio mix, as funds were invested in longer-term, high quality securities while still maintaining high levels of liquidity. unfavorable rate variances associated with each component of interest-earning assets caused a $75.2 million decline in our interest income for 2002 as compared to 2001. short-term market interest rates decreased rapidly throughout 2001, and we experienced additional, although less severe, market interest rate decreases in 2002. thus, we earned lower yields in 2002 on federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell, as well as our investment securities, a significant portion of which were short-term in nature. the decrease in short-term market interest rates resulted in a combined $35.2 million unfavorable rate variance in 2002, as compared to 2001. in 2002, we incurred a $40.0 million unfavorable rate variance associated with our loan portfolio. the average yield on loans in 2002 decreased 230 basis points to 8.9% from 11.2% in the prior year. this was due to two factors. first, the lower average prime rate reduced yields on floating rate loans, which represent approximately 79.0% of our total loan portfolio. the weighted-average prime rate declined 224 basis points from 6.9% in 2001 to 4.7% in 2002. second, our fixed-rate loans are priced by reference to u.s. treasury securities. during 2002, the treasury yield curve moved lower and flattened. thus, we earned lower yields on new, renewed, and refinanced fixed-rate loans. the yield on average interest-earning assets decreased 150 basis points in 2002 from the prior year. this decrease primarily resulted from a decline in short-term market interest rates; thus, we earned lower yields on each component of our interest-earning assets. interest expense total interest expense in 2002 decreased $19.5 million from 2001. this decrease was due to a favorable rate variance of $14.7 million, combined with a favorable volume variance of $4.7 million. the favorable rate variance largely resulted from a reduction between 2001 and 2002 in the average rate paid on our time-deposit product from 3.1% to 1.2%. the average cost of funds paid on average interest-bearing liabilities in 2002 was 1.1% down from 2.0% in 2001. this decrease in the average cost of funds was largely due to a decrease of 190 basis points in the average rate paid on our time-deposit product. provision for loan losses the provision for loan losses is based on our evaluation of the adequacy of the existing allowance for loan losses in relation to total loans and on our periodic assessment of the inherent and identified risk dynamics of the loan portfolio resulting from reviews of selected individual loans and loan commitments. for a more detailed discussion of credit quality and the allowance for loan losses, see item 7. critical accounting policies and item 7. financial condition credit quality and the allowance for loan losses. our provision for loan losses totaled $(6.2) million in 2003, as compared to $3.9 million in 2002, and $16.7 million in 2001. we obtained net recoveries of $0.2 million in 2003, as compared to net charge-offs of $5.8 million in 2002, and $18.1 million in 2001. the decrease in provision for loan losses for 2003, as compared to 2002, primarily resulted from $20.4 million in recoveries in 2003 and improved credit quality. a large portion of the loan loss recoveries in 2003 related to the settlement of remaining film loan litigation. we expect lower gross loan loss recoveries in 2004. the decrease in provision for loan losses for 2002, as compared to 2001, resulted from $22.2 million in recoveries in 2002, relating in large part to loan loss recoveries from film loan litigation settlements. 26 noninterest income the following table summarizes the components of noninterest income and the percent change from year to year: years ended december 31, % change 2003 2002 2001 2003 / 2002 2002 / 2001 (dollars in thousands) client investment fees $ 23,991 $ 30,671 $ 41,598 (21.8 )% (26.3 )% deposit service charges 13,202 9,072 6,196 45.5 46.4 corporate finance fees 13,149 12,110 2,911 8.6 316.0 letter of credit and foreign exchange income 12,856 15,225 12,655 (15.6 ) 20.3 income from client warrants 7,528 1,661 8,500 353.2 (80.5 ) credit card fees 3,431 955 625 259.3 52.8 investment losses (8,402 ) (9,825 ) (12,373 ) (14.5 ) (20.6 ) other 9,305 7,989 10,721 16.5 (25.5 ) total noninterest income $ 75,060 $ 67,858 $ 70,833 10.6 % (4.2 )% client investment fees decreased in 2003 from 2002 and 2001. we offer private label investment, sweep products, and asset management services to clients on which we earn fees on clients average balances, ranging from 10 to 100 basis points in 2003, 12.5 to 107 basis points in 2002, and 11 to 107 basis points in 2001. at december 31, 2003, $9.3 billion in client funds were invested in these products, compared to $8.5 billion in 2002, and $9.3 billion in 2001. of these funds, $6.4 billion, $8.5 billion, and $6.4 billion were invested in mutual fund products as of december 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. total invested client funds have increased between 2002 and 2003, however, the decrease in client investment fees from year to year was due to a shift in client investment mix. the sustained low interest rate environment has caused lower priced investment products to become a more attractive investment strategy for many of our clients. in the first quarter of 2003, we established a registered investment advisor (svb asset management) to meet the demand for active management of client investment portfolios. we expect this action will allow us to provide a more expansive and competitive array of investment products and service to our clients. while the fees earned per dollar managed has been reduced, our strategy is to make up for the lower fees through greater volume. at december 31, 2003, svb asset management had $591.6 million of assets under management. deposit service charges have increased steadily from year to year, primarily due to increased client usage of our expanded and enhanced suite of fee-based cash management services. additionally, clients compensate us for depository services, either through earnings credits computed on their demand deposit balances, or through explicit payments recognized by us as deposit service charges income. earnings credits are calculated using client average daily deposit balances, less a reserve requirement and a discounted u.s. treasury bill interest rate. clients received lower earnings credits in 2003, as compared to the prior years due to lower market interest rates. as such, our clients had fewer credits to offset deposit service charges. thus, we earned higher recognizable deposit service charges year over year. corporate finance fees increased slightly in 2003 from 2002. corporate finance fees totaled $12.1 million in 2002, a substantial increase from 2001. in 2002, alliant partners, our investment-banking subsidiary, generated the entire balance of $12.1 million. svb securities, inc., generated $1.1 million in corporate finance fees in 2001. the increase in corporate finance fees from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to the acquisition of alliant on september 28, 2001, which increased our mergers and acquisitions advisory activity. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. we urge investors to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this discussion and analysis. all subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this filing are made only as of the date of this filing. we do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. 45 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management a key objective of asset/liability management is to manage interest rate risk associated with changing asset and liability cash flows and market interest rate movements. interest rate risk occurs when interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities do not re-price simultaneously both in timing and volume. our asset/liability committee (alco) provides oversight to our interest rate risk management process and recommends policy guidelines regarding exposure to interest rates for approval by our board of directors. adherence to these policies is monitored on an ongoing basis, and decisions related to the management of interest rate exposure are made when appropriate. we manage interest rate risk principally through strategies involving our investment securities portfolio. our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments in managing interest rate risk. our monitoring activities related to managing interest rate risk include both interest rate sensitivity gap analysis and the use of a simulation model. while traditional gap analysis provides a simple picture of the interest rate risk embedded in the balance sheet, it provides only a static view of interest rate sensitivity at a specific point in time and does not measure the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. accordingly, we combine the use of gap analysis with use of a simulation model that provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity. interest rate sensitivity analysis the interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest sensitive liabilities that are anticipated to re-price within a specific time period. a gap is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest sensitive liabilities re-pricing within that same time period. positive cumulative gaps in early time periods suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates rise. negative cumulative gaps suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates fall. the gap analysis as of december 31, 2003 indicates that the cumulative one-year gap as a percentage of interest-earning assets was a positive 36%. 46 the following table illustrates our interest rate sensitivity gap positions at december 31, 2003: interest rate sensitivity analysis as of december 31, 2003 assets and liabilities which mature or reprice immediately 1 day to 1 month after 1 month to 3 months after 3 months to 6 months after 6 months to 1 year after 1 year to 5 years after 5 years not stated total (dollars in thousands) interest-earning assets: cash and due from banks $ 252,521 $ 252,521 federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell(1) 542,475 542,475 investment securities: u.s. treasury and agencies obligations(2) 59,938 $ 20,106 $ 10,053 $ 191,624 $ 34,861 316,582 collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities(2) 12,464 15,123 24,987 $ 55,866 356,155 480,979 945,574 obligations of states and political subdivisions 22,026 3,422 1,044 5,725 94,435 24,219 150,871 commercial paper and other debt securities 26,991 26,991 money market mutual funds 23,079 23,079 other equity securities(3) $ 10,476 10,476 total investment securities 144,498 38,651 36,084 61,591 642,214 540,059 10,476 1,473,573 loans(4)(5) $ 1,556,020 15,880 32,197 48,956 76,959 202,675 56,542 1,989,229 total interest-earning assets $ 1,556,020 $ 955,374 $ 70,848 $ 85,040 $ 138,550 $ 844,889 $ 596,601 $ 10,476 $ 4,257,798 funding sources: interest-bearing demand $ 54,659 $ 105,252 $ 148,215 $ 264,702 $ 1,134,897 $ 478,627 $ 2,186,352 money market and now deposits 25,293 48,814 68,999 124,086 553,706 280,558 1,101,456 time deposits 251,566 59,426 30,940 36,579 557 379,068 total interest-bearing deposits 276,859 108,240 99,939 160,665 554,263 280,558 1,480,524 short-term borrowings 9,124 9,124 long-term debt 154,634 48,106 202,740 portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources $ 379,058 379,058 total funding sources $ $ 331,518 $ 213,492 $ 248,154 $ 434,491 $ 1,843,794 $ 807,291 $ 379,058 $ 4,257,798 off-balance sheet items: interest rate swap (50,000 ) 50,000 gap $ 1,556,020 $ 573,856 $ (142,644 ) $ (163,114 ) $ (295,941 ) $ (948,905 ) $ (210,690 ) $ (368,582 ) cumulative gap $ 1,556,020 $ 2,129,876 $ 1,987,232 $ 1,824,118 $ 1,528,177 $ 579,272 $ 368,582 (1) includes interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $1.8 million as of december 31, 2003. (2) principal cash flows are based on estimated principal payments as of december 31, 2003. (3) not stated column consists of investments in federal reserve and federal home loan bank stock as of december 31, 2003. (4) not stated column consists of nonaccrual loans of $12.4 million offset by unearned income of $12.3 million as of december 31, 2003. (5) maturity/repricing columns for fixed rate loans are based upon the amount and timing of related principal payments as of december 31, 2003. 47 market value of portfolio equity (mvpe) one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on the net present value of estimated cash flows from our assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet items, defined as our market value of portfolio equity (mvpe). this analysis assesses the changes in market values of interest-rate-sensitive financial instruments that would occur in response to an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points and the resulting effect on our mvpe. policy guidelines establish maximum variances in our mvpe of 20.0% and 30.0% in the event of an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. the following table presents our mvpe exposure at december 31, 2003 and december 31, 2002, related to an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. change in interest estimated estimated increase / (decrease) in mvpe rates (basis points) mvpe amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2003: +200 $ 801,630 $ 38,377 5.0 % +100 796,232 32,979 4.3 763,253 100 791,797 28,544 3.7 200 735,833 (27,420 ) (3.6 ) december 31, 2002: +200 $ 746,459 $ 12,864 1.8 % +100 739,634 6,039 0.8 733,595 100 722,113 (11,482 ) (1.6 ) 200 707,976 (25,619 ) (3.5 ) the preceding table indicates that at december 31, 2003, in the event of an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates, our mvpe would be expected to respectively increase or decrease accordingly. the market value calculations supporting the results in the preceding table are based on the present value of estimated cash flows using both market interest rates provided by independent broker/dealers and other publicly available sources that we deem reliable. these calculations do not contemplate any changes that we could make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. for example, although certain of our assets and liabilities may have similar maturity or re-pricing profiles, they may react to changes in market interest rates with different magnitudes. also, actual prepayment rates on loans and investments could vary substantially from the assumptions utilized in the model in deriving the results as presented in the preceding table. further, a change in the shape of the forward yield curve could result in different mvpe estimations from those presented herein. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as indicative of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. the simulation model also gives us the ability to simulate our net interest income using an interest rate forecast (simple simulation). in order to measure the sensitivity of our forecasted net interest income to changing interest rates utilizing the simple simulation methodology, both a rising and falling interest rate scenario were projected and compared to a base market interest rate forecast derived from the current yield curve. for the rising and falling interest rate scenarios, the base market interest rate forecast was increased or decreased, as applicable, by 200 basis points in 12 equal increments over a one-year period. 48 in addition to the 200 basis point ramp scenario mentioned above we run net interest income and net income simulations in an interest rate environment whereby we shock the base rate immediately both up and down 100 basis points. the combination of the ramp and shock scenarios provides us with additional information with respect to our sensitivity to interest rates and the impact on our net income under varied interest rate scenarios. our policy guidelines provide that the difference between a base market interest rate forecast scenario over the succeeding one-year period compared with the aforementioned rising and falling interest rate scenarios over the same time period should not result in net interest income sensitivity exceeding 20.0%. simulations as of december 31, 2003 indicated that we were well within these policy guidelines. interest rate risk is the most significant market risk impacting us. other types of market risk affecting us in the normal course of our business activities include foreign currency exchange risk, equity price risk, and basis risk. the impact resulting from these market risks is not considered significant and no separate quantitative information concerning market rate and price exposure is presented herein. our mvpe exposure at december 31, 2003 increased slightly from december 31, 2002 primarily due to changes in the investment portfolio while staying well within our policy guidelines. in addition, our net interest income at risk remains well within policy limits. these estimates are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as the company asset-liability structure changes and as different interest rate environments evolve. we expect to continue to actively manage our interest rate risk utilizing on and off-balance sheet strategies as appropriate. factors that may affect future results our business faces significant risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face, and is not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. if a significant number of clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability, and financial condition would be adversely affected. as a lender, the largest risk we face is the possibility that a significant number of our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our experience and judgment. we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability or financial condition. because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile, and we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could cause reduced net income or increased net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. many of our loans are made to companies in the early stages of development with negative cash flow and no established record of profitable operations. in many cases, repayment of the loan is dependent upon receipt of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others. collateral for many of the loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in our technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. we also make loans that are larger, relative to the revenues of the borrower, than those made by traditional small business lenders, so the impact of any single borrower default may be more significant to us. because of these characteristics, our level of nonperforming loans and loan 49 charge-offs can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. changes in our level of nonperforming loans may require us to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest spread could have a material impact on our business and profitability. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, and unemployment. in addition, legislative changes could affect the manner in which we pay interest on deposits or other liabilities. for example, congress has for many years debated repealing a law that prohibits banks from paying interest rates on checking accounts. if this law were to be repealed, we would be subject to competitive pressure to pay interest on our clients checking accounts, which would negatively affect our interest rate spread. any material decline in our interest rate spread would have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to start-up and emerging growth companies could adversely affect our business, profitability, and growth prospects. our strategy has focused on providing banking products and services to emerging growth and middle-market companies receiving financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capitalists, angels, and corporate investors. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive a second or third round of equity infusion from investors. the amount of capital available to startup and emerging growth companies has decreased in the past three years, which has caused our client deposit balances to decline. if the amount of capital available to such companies continues to decrease, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, having an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to startup and emerging growth companies are the receptivity of the capital markets to initial public offerings or mergers and acquisitions of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, and general economic conditions in the technology and life sciences industries. over the past three years, the stock prices of many technology and life science companies have declined substantially, and the capital markets have been less receptive to initial public offerings. reduced capital markets valuations could further reduce the amount of capital available to startup and emerging growth companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. our business is dependent upon access to funds on attractive terms. we derive our net interest income through lending or investing capital on terms that provide returns in excess of our costs for obtaining that capital. as a result, our credit ratings are extremely important to our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs (or trigger obligations under certain existing borrowings and other contracts), or increase the interest rates we pay our depositors. further, our credit ratings and the terms upon which we have access to capital may be influenced by circumstances beyond our control, such as overall trends in the general market environment, perceptions about our creditworthiness or market conditions in the industries in which we focus. we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries are extensively regulated under federal and state law. these regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other 50 clients, and the deposit insurance fund not for the benefit of stockholders or security holders. federal and state laws and regulations limit or otherwise affect the activities in which silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries may engage. a change in the applicable statutes, regulations, or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business and that of our subsidiaries. in addition, silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank and their subsidiaries are required to maintain certain minimum levels of capital. federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory action, as they deem appropriate, with respect to silicon valley bancshares and silicon valley bank. alliant partners and svb securities, both broker-dealer subsidiaries, are regulated by the sec and the nasd. violations of the stringent regulations governing the actions of a broker-dealer can result in the revocation of broker-dealer licenses, the imposition of censures or fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion from the securities business of a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions can result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, and limitations on the activities of silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank or their subsidiaries. these supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. warrant, venture capital fund, and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which is uncertain. we have historically obtained rights to acquire stock, in the form of warrants, in certain clients as part of negotiated credit facilities. we may not be able to realize gains from warrants in future periods, or our realized gains may be materially less than the current level of unrealized gains disclosed in this filing. we also have made investments in venture capital funds as well as direct equity investments in companies. the timing and amount of income, if any, from the disposition of client warrants, venture capital funds and direct equity investments typically depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying portfolio companies, investor demand for initial public offerings, fluctuations in the market prices of the underlying common stock of these companies, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. in addition, our investments in venture capital funds and direct equity investments have lost value and could continue to lose value or become worthless, which would reduce our net income or could cause a net loss in any period. all of these factors are difficult to predict, particularly in the current economic environment. if equity market conditions do not improve, it is likely that additional investments within our existing portfolio will become impaired. however, we are not in a position to know at the present time which specific investments, if any, are likely to be impaired or the extent or timing of individual impairments. therefore, we cannot predict future investment gains or losses with any degree of accuracy, and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. public offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients can cause loans to be paid off early, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering or are acquired or merge with another company. any significant reduction in our outstanding loans could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology sector and particularly in california, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, and profitability. if conditions worsen in the domestic or global economy, especially in the technology sector, our business, growth and profitability are likely to be materially adversely affected. many of our technology clients have been harmed by the current economic slowdown, and would be further harmed by the continuation or worsening of the global or u.s. economic slowdown. our clients may be particularly sensitive to disruptions in the growth of the technology sector of the u.s. economy. in addition, a substantial number of our clients are geographically concentrated in california, and adverse economic 51 conditions in california could harm the businesses of a disproportionate number of our clients. to the extent that our clients underlying businesses are harmed, they are more likely to default on their loans. if we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we rely on experienced client relationship managers and on officers and employees with strong relationships with the venture capital community to generate new business. if a significant number of these employees were to leave us, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we believe that our employees frequently have opportunities for alternative employment with competing financial institutions and with our clients. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our historical levels of profitability in the face of sustained competitive pressures. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies, many of which are larger and have more capital than we do, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies, early stage growth companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges. we face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. we completed one acquisition in each of 2002 and 2001 and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we intend to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are strategic. there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully, or to integrate such acquisitions with our current business. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and/or contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. any such future acquisitions of other businesses, technologies, services or products might require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all; and such financing, if available, might be dilutive. upon completion of an acquisition, we are faced with the challenges of integrating the operations, services, products, personnel, and systems of acquired companies into our business, which may divert management attention from ongoing business operations. in addition, acquisitions of new businesses may subject us to regulatory scrutiny. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating any acquired business effectively into the operations of our business. moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. the success of our acquisitions is dependent on the continued employment of several key employees. if acquired businesses do not meet projected revenue targets, or if certain key employees were to leave the businesses, we could conclude that the value of the businesses has decreased and that the related goodwill has been impaired. if we were to conclude that goodwill has been impaired that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. we offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. the secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintain our clients confidence in our online services. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically 52 test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. people generally are concerned with security and privacy on the internet and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with international operations. a component of our strategy is to expand internationally on a limited basis. expansion into international markets, albeit on a limited basis, will require management attention and resources. we have limited experience in internationalizing our service, and we believe that many of our competitors are also undertaking expansion into foreign markets. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding into international markets. in addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations and to expand our international presence, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, regulatory requirements, legal uncertainty regarding liability, tariffs, and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, problems in collecting loan payments, political instability, seasonal reductions in business activity, and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely affect the success of our international operations. to the extent we expand into international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we could become subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. there can be no assurance that one or more of the factors discussed above will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and client demands. there is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products or services. a failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, or a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, or growth prospects. 53quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results . the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and supplementary data as presented in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. certain reclassifications have been made to our prior years results to conform to 2004 presentations. such reclassifications had no effect on our results of operations or stockholders equity. overview of company operations silicon valley bancshares is a bank holding company and a financial holding company that was incorporated in the state of delaware in march 1999. our principal subsidiary, silicon valley bank, is a california state-chartered bank and a member of the federal reserve system. silicon valley bank deposits are insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation. our corporate headquarters is located at 3003 tasman drive, santa clara, california 95054, and our telephone number is 408.654.7400. when we refer to silicon valley bancshares, or we or use similar words, we intend to include silicon valley bancshares and all of its subsidiaries collectively, including silicon valley bank. when we refer to bancshares, we are referring only to the parent company, silicon valley bancshares. for over 20 years, we have been dedicated to helping entrepreneurs succeed, specifically focusing on industries where we have deep knowledge and relationships. our focus is on the technology, life science, private equity, and premium wine industries. we continue to diversify our products and services to support our clients throughout their life cycles, regardless of their age or size. we offer a range of financial services that generate three distinct sources of income. in part, our income is generated from interest rate differentials. the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates received on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and securities held in our investment portfolio, accounts for the major portion of our earnings. our deposits are largely obtained from commercial clients within our technology, life science, private equity, and premium wine industry sectors, and, to a lesser extent, from individuals served by our private client services group. we do not obtain deposits from conventional retail sources and have no brokered deposits. as part of negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we frequently obtain rights to acquire stock in the form of warrants in certain client companies. fee-based services also generate income for our business. we market our full range of financial services to all of our commercial and private equity firm clients. in addition to commercial banking and private client services, we offer fee-based merger and acquisition services, private placements, and investment and advisory services. our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to our clients is a strength of our business model. in addition, we seek to obtain returns through investments in private equity and venture capital fund investments. we manage three limited partnerships: a venture capital fund that invests directly in privately held companies and two funds that invest in other venture capital funds. critical accounting policies the accompanying management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 20 with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. management evaluates estimates on an ongoing basis. management bases its estimates on historical experiences and various other factors and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. we believe the accounting policies and estimates discussed below are the most critical to our audited consolidated financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on our management regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. the financial impact of each estimate, to the extent significant to financial results, is discussed in the applicable sections of the management discussion and analysis. as of december 31, 2004, there have been no material changes to these policies since the last reporting period. our senior management discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these critical accounting policies with our audit committee on january 26, 2005. marketable equity securities our investments in marketable equity securities include: by receipt of warrants for shares of publicly traded companies. investments in shares of publicly traded companies. equity securities in our warrant, direct equity, and venture capital fund portfolios generally become marketable when a portfolio company completes an initial public offering on a publicly reported market or is acquired by a publicly traded company. unrealized gains on warrants and unrealized gains or losses on equity investment securities are recorded upon the establishment of a readily determinable fair value of the underlying security, as defined by statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity instruments. unrealized gains or losses after applicable taxes, on available-for-sale marketable equity securities that result from initial public offerings are excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. we are often contractually restricted from selling equity securities for a certain period of time subsequent to the portfolio company initial public offering. often equity securities held by us for sale are not registered under the securities act of 1933 (the securities act). in such cases, we often seek exemption from the registration requirements of the securities act by effecting sales of equity securities of the portfolio company in compliance with the current public information, holding period, volume limitation and manner of sale requirements of rule 144 under the securities act. in addition, as an inducement to the underwriter(s) to underwrite such an offering, security holders, including us, typically enter into an agreement with the underwriter(s) and/or the portfolio company, pursuant to which the security holder agrees to refrain from selling the securities held by such holder for a period of time, often 180 days, after the initial public offering. as a result of such regulatory and contractual requirements, we are frequently restricted for some period of time in our ability to liquidate portfolio securities even after a portfolio company has completed an initial public offering. gains or losses on these marketable equity instruments are recorded in our consolidated net income in the period the underlying securities are sold to a third party. 21 if we possess a warrant that can be settled with a net cash payment to us, the warrant meets the definition of a derivative instrument. changes in fair value of such derivative instruments are recognized as securities gains or losses in our consolidated net income. marketable equity securities are recorded at fair value, which initially is the purchase cost of the securities. however, a decline in the fair value of any of these securities that is considered other-than-temporary is recorded in our consolidated net income in the period the impairment occurs. the cost basis of the underlying security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis. marketable equity securities held through our venture capital fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp, are recorded at fair value, which initially is the purchase cost of the securities. holdings that are saleable without restriction are valued at the most recent stock exchange closing price prior to the valuation. in addition, holdings that are subject to limitations under rule 144 and/or rule 145 or underwriter lock-ups, or in cases where bancshares and its affiliates could be considered an affiliate of the issuer are discounted to allow for possible price reduction due to restrictions on liquidity. discounts will range dependent upon many factors, including but not limited to co-investor discount(s), trading volume, and price volatility. we consider our marketable equity securities accounting policies to be critical, as the timing and amount of income, if any, from these instruments typically depend upon factors beyond our control. these factors include the general condition of the public equity markets, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, fluctuations in the market prices of the underlying common stock of these companies, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. non-marketable equity securities we invest in non-marketable equity securities in several ways: by receipt of warrants for shares of privately held companies. by direct purchases of preferred or common stock in privately held companies. by capital contributions to venture capital funds, which in turn make investments in preferred or common stock of privately held companies. through our venture capital fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp, which makes investments in preferred or common stock of privately held companies. through our funds of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, which make investments in venture capital funds, which in turn, invest in privately held companies. through our investments in partners for growth, lp and gold hill venture lending 03, lp, which provide financing to privately held companies in the form of loans and equity. unexercised warrant securities in private companies are initially recorded at a nominal value on our consolidated balance sheets. they are carried at this value until they become marketable or expire, except in the following circumstance: gains on warrant and gains or losses on equity investment securities that result from a portfolio company being acquired by a publicly traded company are marked-to-market when the acquisition occurs. the resulting gains or losses are recognized into consolidated net income on that date, in accordance with emerging issues task force, issue no. 91-5, nonmonetary exchange of cost method investments. further fluctuations in the market value of these marketable equity securities are excluded from consolidated net income and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. upon the sale of these equity securities to a third party, gains and losses, which are measured from the adjusted cost basis, are recognized in our consolidated net income. 22 we account for non-marketable equity investment securities, including warrants, other than those held by the svb strategic investors fund, lp, svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, silicon valley bancventures, lp, partners for growth, lp, and gold hill venture lending 03, lp, on a cost basis. in the event of a stock-based acquisition of a non-publicly traded issuer by a publicly traded company, we will realize gains or losses on these securities in our consolidated net income when the transaction occurs. a summary of our accounting policies for other non-marketable equity securities is presented in the following table. a complete description of the accounting policies follows the table. private equity and venture capital fund investments wholly-owned by bancshares cost basis less identified impairment, if any owned by svb strategic investors fund, lp, svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, silicon valley bancventures, lp, partners for growth, lp, and gold hill venture lending 03, lp investment company accounting, adjusted to fair value on a quarterly basis through consolidated net income bancshares wholly-owned non-marketable venture capital fund investments and other direct equity investments are recorded on a cost basis as our interests are considered minor because we own less than 5.0% of the company and have no influence over the company operating and financial policies. our cost basis in each investment is reduced by returns until the cost basis of the individual investment is fully recovered. returns in excess of the cost basis are recorded as investment gains in noninterest income. the values of the investments are reviewed at least quarterly, giving consideration to the facts and circumstances of each individual investment. management review of private equity investments typically includes the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, and exit strategies. a decline in the fair value that is considered other-than-temporary is recorded in our consolidated net income in the period the impairment occurs. any estimated loss is recorded in noninterest income as investment losses. investments held by silicon valley bancventures, lp are recorded at fair value using investment accounting rules. the investments consist principally of stock in private companies that are not traded on a public market and are subject to restrictions on resale. these investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by the general partner. the valuation generally remains at cost until such time that there is significant evidence of a change in value based upon consideration of the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategies, and other pertinent information. the general partner, silicon valley bancventures, inc. is owned and controlled by bancshares and has an ownership interest of 10.7% in silicon valley bancventures, lp. the limited partners do not have substantive participating rights. therefore, silicon valley bancventures, lp is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in our consolidated net income. the portion of any gains or losses belonging to the limited partners is reflected in minority interest in net gains or losses of consolidated affiliates and adjusts bancshares consolidated net income to reflect its percentage ownership. the svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp (sif i and ii) portfolios consist primarily of investments in venture capital funds, which are recorded at fair value using investment company accounting rules. the carrying value of the investments is determined by the general partners based on the percentage of sif i and ii interest in the total fair market value as provided by each venture capital fund investment. svb strategic investors, llc and svb strategic investors ii, llc generally utilize the fair values assigned to the underlying respective portfolio investments by the 23 management of the venture capital funds. the estimated fair value of the investments is determined after giving consideration to the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategy, and other pertinent information. the general partner of svb strategic investors fund, lp, svb strategic investors, llc, is owned and controlled by bancshares and has an ownership interest of 11.1%. the general partner of svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, svb strategic investors ii, llc, is owned and controlled by bancshares and has an ownership interest of 14.4%. the limited partners of these funds do not have substantive participating rights. therefore, sif i and ii are consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the venture capital fund investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in our consolidated net income. the other limited partners share of any gains or losses is reflected in minority interest in net gains or losses of consolidated affiliates and adjusts bancshares consolidated net income to reflect its percentage ownership. investments held by partners for growth, lp and gold hill venture lending 03, lp are recorded at fair value using investment accounting rules. the investments consist principally of loans and equity investments in private companies that are not traded on a public market and are subject to restrictions on resale. these investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by the general partner. the general partner of partners for growth, lp, partners for growth gp, l.l.c, is not owned by bancshares. bancshares has an ownership interest of 53.2% in partners for growth, lp and therefore, the fund is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in our consolidated net income. the portion of any gains or losses belonging to the limited partners is reflected in minority interest in net gains or losses of consolidated affiliates and adjusts bancshares consolidated net income to reflect its percentage ownership. bancshares has a 90.7% ownership interest in the general partner of gold hill venture lending 03, lp, gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc. both bancshares and gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc have an ownership interest of 5.0% and 4.8%, respectively, in gold hill venture lending 03, lp. the limited partners of the fund have the substantive ability to remove the general partner without cause. therefore, gold hill venture lending 03, lp is not consolidated and bancshares carries the investments in the fund at estimated fair value as determined by the general partner. changes in the estimated fair value of the investment are recorded as investment gains or losses in our consolidated net income. we consider our marketable and non-marketable equity securities accounting policies to be critical, as the timing and amount of gain or losses, if any, from these instruments depend upon factors beyond our control. these factors include the general condition of the public equity markets, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. therefore, we cannot predict future gains or losses with any degree of accuracy and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. in addition, the valuation of non-marketable equity securities included in our financial statements represents our best interpretation of the underlying equity securities performance at this time. because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, the estimated values of these securities may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market for the securities existed, and the differences could be material. future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investment carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future. for further information related to non-marketable equity securities for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, please refer to the table under part ii item 8. consolidated financial statements and supplementary data note 7. investment securities. allowance for loan and lease losses we consider our accounting policy relating to the estimation of the allowance for loan and lease losses to be critical as estimation of the allowance involves material estimates by our management and is 24 particularly susceptible to significant changes in the near term. our loan loss reserve methodology is applied to the funded debt as a contra-asset and to our unfunded loan commitments as a reserve to other liabilities. except as described herein, the methodology for the determination of an appropriate reserve for funded and unfunded loan commitments is the same. we define credit risk as the probability of sustaining a loss because other parties to the financial instrument fail to perform in accordance with the terms of the contract. through the administration of loan policies and monitoring of the loan portfolio, our management seeks to reduce such credit risks. while we follow underwriting and credit monitoring procedures, which we believe are appropriate in growing and managing the loan portfolio, in the event of nonperformance by these other parties, our potential exposure to credit losses could significantly affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. the allowance for loan and lease losses is established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense to provide for credit risk. our allowance for loan and lease losses is established for loan losses that are probable but not yet realized. the process of anticipating loan losses is imprecise. our management applies the following evaluation process to our loan portfolio to estimate the required allowance for loan and lease losses: we maintain a systematic process for the evaluation of individual loans and pools of loans for inherent risk of loan losses. on a quarterly basis, each loan in our portfolio is assigned a credit risk rating. credit risk-ratings are assigned on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 representing loans with a low risk of nonpayment, 9 representing loans with the highest risk of nonpayment, and 10 representing loans, which have been charged-off. this credit risk-rating evaluation process includes, but is not limited to, consideration of such factors as payment status, the financial condition of the borrower, borrower compliance with loan covenants, underlying collateral values, potential loan concentrations, and general economic conditions. our policies require a committee of senior management to review at least quarterly, credit relationships that exceed specific dollar values. our review process evaluates the appropriateness of the credit risk rating and allocation of allowance for loan and lease losses, as well as other account management functions. our enterprise risk management department through a co-sourced relationship, reviews a selection of credit relationships. in addition, our management receives and approves an analysis for all impaired loans, as defined by the sfas no. 114, accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan. the allowance for loan and lease losses is allocated based on a formula allocation for similarly risk-rated loans, or for specific risk issues, which suggest a probable loss factor exceeding the formula allocation for a specific loan, or for individual impaired loans as determined by sfas no. 114. our evaluation process was designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses. we assess the risk of losses inherent in the loan portfolio by utilizing modeling techniques. for this purpose, we have developed a statistical model based on historical loan loss migration to estimate an appropriate allowance for outstanding loan balances. in addition, we apply a macro allocation to the results of the aforementioned model to ascertain the total allowance for loan and lease losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of the allowance for loan and lease losses, relies, to a great extent, on the judgment and experience of our management. historical loan loss migration model we use the historical loan loss migration model as a basis for determining expected loan loss factors by credit risk-rating category. the effectiveness of the historical loan loss migration model is predicated on the theory that historical trends are predictive of future experience. specifically, the model calculates the likelihood and rate of a loan in one risk-rating category moving one category lower using loan data from our portfolio. 25 we analyze the historical loan loss migration trend by compiling gross loan loss data and by credit risk rating for the rolling twelve-month periods as of the end of each quarter. each of the loans charged-off over the twelve-month period is assigned a credit risk rating at the period end of each of the preceding four quarters. on an annual basis, the model calculates charged-off loans as a percentage of current period end loans by credit risk-rating category. the percentages are averaged and are aggregated to estimate our loan loss factors. the annual periods are reviewed and averaged to form the loan loss factors for several quarters of history. the current period-end client loan balances are aggregated by risk-rating category. loan loss factors for each risk-rating category are ultimately applied to the respective period-end client loan balances for each corresponding risk-rating category to provide an estimation of the allowance for loan and lease losses. macro allocations a macro allocation is calculated each quarter based upon an assessment of the risks that may lead to a loan loss experience different from our historical results. these risks are aggregated to become our macro allocation. based on management prediction or estimate of changing risks in the lending environment, the macro allocation may vary significantly from period to period and includes but is not limited to consideration of the following factors: changes in lending policies and procedures, including underwriting standards and collections, and charge-off and recovery practices. changes in national and local economic business conditions, including the market and economic condition of our clients industry sectors. changes in the nature of our loan portfolio. changes in experience, ability, and depth of lending management and staff. changes in the trend of the volume and severity of past due and classified loans. changes in the trend of the volume of nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructurings, and other loan modifications. finally, we compute several modified versions of the model, which provide additional assurance that the statistical results of the historical loan loss migration model are reasonable. our chief credit officer and chief financial officer evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the results of our analysis. allowance for loan loss contingency we reserve for the possibility of an unfunded loan commitment being funded and subsequently being charged-off. each quarter, every unfunded client credit commitment is allocated to a credit risk-rating category in accordance with each client credit risk rating. we use the historical loan loss factors described above to calculate the possible loan loss experience if unfunded credit commitments are funded. separately, we use historical trends to calculate the probability of an unfunded credit commitment being funded by us. we apply the loan funding probability factor to risk-factor adjusted unfunded commitments by credit risk-rating to derive the reserve for unfunded loan commitments. the loan loss contingency reserve may also include certain macro allocations as deemed appropriate by our management. 26 goodwill please see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies, for a description of our process for evaluating goodwill. goodwill, which arises from the purchase price exceeding the assigned value of the net assets of an acquired business, represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements being acquired. our goodwill at december 31, 2004, related to the acquisition of svb alliant (alliant partners) a mergers and acquisitions firm. the value of this goodwill is supported by the free cash flows from the acquired businesses. a decline in earnings as a result of a decline in mergers and acquisitions transaction volume or a decline in the valuations of mergers and acquisitions clients could lead to impairment, which would be recorded as a write-down in our consolidated net income. on an annual basis or as circumstances dictate, our management reviews goodwill and evaluates events or other developments that may indicate impairment in the carrying amount. the evaluation methodology for potential impairments is inherently complex and involves significant management judgment in the use of estimates and assumptions. we evaluate impairment using a two-step process. first, we compare the aggregate fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. if the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, no impairment exists. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then we compare the implied fair value, defined below, of the reporting unit goodwill with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, then writing goodwill down to the implied fair value recognizes goodwill impairment. we primarily use a discounted future cash flows approach to value the reporting unit being evaluated for goodwill impairment. these estimates involve many assumptions, including expected results of operations, assumed discounts rates, and assumed growth rates for the reporting units. the discount rate used is based on standard industry practice, taking into account the expected equity risk premium, the size of the business, and the probability of the reporting unit achieving its financial forecasts. the implied fair value is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the unit was the purchase price. events that may indicate goodwill impairment include significant or adverse changes in results of operations of the business, economic or political climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, and a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. more information about goodwill is included in item 8-consolidated financial statements and supplementary data-note 10. goodwill and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. results of operations earnings summary we reported consolidated net income of $65.4 million in 2004, as compared to consolidated net income of $12.0 million in 2003 and $53.4 million in 2002. diluted earnings per common share totaled $1.74 for 2004, as compared to $0.32 for 2003 and $1.18 for 2002. dilutive effect of contingently convertible debt on our diluted earnings per share calculation we included the dilutive effect of the $150.0 million zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes due june 15, 2008 in our fully diluted earnings per share (eps) calculation using the treasury stock method, in accordance with the provisions of emerging issue task force (eitf) issue no. 90-19, convertible bonds with issuer option to settle in cash upon conversion and statement of financial accounting standard (sfas) no. 128, earnings per share . the exposure draft of sfas no. 128r, if adopted in its proposed form, will require us to change our accounting for the calculation of eps on our contingently convertible 27 debt to the if converted method. if converted treatment of the contingently convertible debt would have decreased eps by $0.17 per diluted common share, or 10 percent for 2004. 2004 compared to 2003 increase in consolidated net income increase in net interest income, decrease in impairment of goodwill expense consolidated net income increased by $53.4 million between 2004 and 2003: impairment of goodwill expense decreased by $61.1 million. in 2003, we incurred charges aggregating $63.0 million related to our investment banking business unit, svb alliant; net interest income increased by $45.9 million, primarily due to increased interest income from both investment securities and loans; and noninterest income increased by $31.0 million, largely due to increases in corporate finance fees, client investments fees and foreign exchange fees. these improvements to consolidated net income were partially offset by increases in certain noninterest expense categories, particularly compensation and benefits expense, which was higher in 2004 primarily due to variable compensation, attributable to our improved financial performance. additionally, we experienced an increase in professional services expense primarily due to expenses associated with sarbanes-oxley compliance. finally, our effective tax rate increased to 37.8% in 2004 from 21.0% in 2003. 2003 compared to 2002 decrease in consolidated net income decrease in net interest income, impairment of goodwill expense the decrease in consolidated net income between 2003 and 2002 primarily resulted from an increase of $82.2 million in noninterest expense. the increase in noninterest expense was principally due to the following factors: impairment of goodwill charges aggregating $63.0 million related to svb alliant, and increase in expense associated with our incentive compensation program, which we believe was necessary to retain our professional talent in an improving economic environment. additionally, due to a decrease in the weighted-average prime rate of 4.1% for the year ended december 31, 2003, from 4.7% for the year ended december 31, 2002, we earned lower interest income from our investment securities and loan portfolios, which resulted in a decline in net interest income. however, our provision for loan loss expense decreased by $10.1 million for 2003, as compared to 2002, largely due to a significant loan loss recovery, and our improved credit quality. 28 the major components of net income and changes in these components are summarized in the following table for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and are discussed in more detail on the following pages. years ended december 31, % change % change 2004 2003 2004/2003 2002 2003/2002 (dollars in thousands) net interest income $ 234,748 $ 188,884 24.3 % $ 194,708 (3.0 )% provision for loan (losses) recoveries (9,901 ) (8,727 ) 13.5 7,220 (220.9 ) noninterest income 106,033 75,060 41.3 67,858 10.6 noninterest expense 242,486 265,191 (8.6 ) 183,036 44.9 minority interest in net (gains) losses of consolidated affiliates (3,079 ) 7,689 (140.0 ) 7,767 (1.0 ) income before income tax expense 105,117 15,169 593.0 80,077 (81.1 ) income tax expense 39,741 3,192 1,145.0 26,719 (88.1 ) net income $ 65,376 $ 11,977 445.8 $ 53,358 (77.6 ) return on average assets 1.4 % 0.3 % 1.4 % return on average stockholders equity 13.4 2.4 8.5 average stockholders equity to average assets 10.2 12.3 16.2 net interest income and margin net interest income is defined as the difference between interest earned (primarily on loans, investment securities and federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell) and interest paid on funding sources (such as deposits and borrowings). net interest income is our principal source of revenue. net interest margin is defined as the amount of net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average yield earned on interest-earning assets is the amount of taxable-equivalent interest income expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average rate paid on funding sources is defined as interest expense as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. 29 the following table sets forth average assets, liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity, interest income and interest expense, average yields and rates, and the composition of our net interest margin for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002. years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate (dollars in thousands ) interest-earning assets: federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell(1) $ 437,052 $ 6,143 1.4 % $ 385,169 $ 4,530 1.2 % $ 153,185 $ 2,865 1.9 % investment securities(2): taxable 1,819,889 72,929 4.0 1,297,920 42,789 3.3 1,376,977 46,585 3.4 non-taxable(3) 123,243 7,698 6.2 142,597 9,613 6.7 177,058 10,606 6.0 loans(4)(5)(6): commercial 1,616,499 145,638 9.0 1,508,961 134,589 8.9 1,508,204 141,697 9.4 real estate construction and term 120,568 6,511 5.4 98,720 5,989 6.1 102,479 7,245 7.1 consumer and other 217,398 9,914 4.6 192,341 8,192 4.3 151,613 7,298 4.8 total loans 1,954,465 162,063 8.3 1,800,022 148,770 8.3 1,762,296 156,240 8.9 total interest-earning assets 4,334,649 248,833 5.8 3,625,708 205,702 5.7 3,469,516 216,296 6.2 cash and due from banks 213,213 192,591 182,400 allowance for loan and lease losses (48,249 ) (58,658 ) (61,042 ) goodwill 37,066 91,992 98,252 other assets(2) 230,042 202,276 190,919 total assets $ 4,766,721 $ 4,053,909 $ 3,880,045 funding sources: interest-bearing liabilities: now deposits $ 25,986 114 0.4 $ 23,447 105 0.4 $ 33,567 220 0.7 regular money market deposits 513,699 2,587 0.5 332,632 1,824 0.5 288,238 2,751 1.0 bonus money market deposits 739,976 3,721 0.5 673,982 3,686 0.5 614,378 5,855 1.0 time deposits 329,336 2,001 0.6 485,199 3,468 0.7 610,996 7,403 1.2 contingently convertible debt 146,255 943 0.6 73,791 572 0.8 0.0 junior subordinated debentures 49,362 1,505 3.0 24,490 3,026 12.4 0.0 other borrowings 16,605 520 3.1 40,903 772 1.9 57,593 1,647 2.9 total interest-bearing liabilities 1,821,219 11,391 0.6 1,654,444 13,453 0.8 1,604,772 17,876 1.1 portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 2,513,430 1,971,264 1,864,744 total funding sources 4,334,649 11,391 0.3 3,625,708 13,453 0.4 3,469,516 17,876 0.5 noninterest-bearing funding sources: demand deposits 2,296,468 1,762,334 1,516,337 other liabilities 103,271 85,459 58,119 trust preferred securities(7) 19,193 38,667 minority interest 59,150 37,481 31,145 stockholders equity 486,613 494,998 631,005 portion used to fund interest-earning assets (2,513,430 ) (1,971,264 ) (1,864,744 ) total liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity $ 4,766,721 $ 4,053,909 $ 3,880,045 net interest income and margin $ 237,442 5.5 % $ 192,249 5.3 % $ 198,420 5.7 % total deposits $ 3,905,465 $ 3,277,594 $ 3,063,516 (1) includes average interest-yielding deposits in other financial institutions of $10,559, $783, and $609 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (2) average noninterest-earning investment securities, primarily marketable and non-marketable equity securities, are excluded from the totals of investment securities and are included in other assets. average noninterest-earning investment securities amounted to $108,458, $102,742 and $97,143 for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (3) interest income on nontaxable investments is presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. these adjustments were $2,694, $3,365, and $3,712 for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. (4) average loans include average nonaccrual loans of $14,533, $16,089, and $19,602 in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. (5) average loans are net of average unearned income of $13,448, $12,573, and $11,651 in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. (6) loan interest income includes loan fees of $36,399, $36,348, and $36,701 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (7) adoption of fin no. 46 and sfas no. 150 in the latter half of 2003 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense from noninterest expense to interest expense on a prospective basis. additionally, the adoption of fin no. 46 and sfas no. 150 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities from noninterest-bearing funding sources to interest-bearing liabilities on a prospective basis. prior to adoption of fin no. 46 and sfas no. 150, in accordance with accounting rules in effect at that time, the company recorded trust preferred securities distribution expense as noninterest expense. on october 30, 2003, $50.0 million in cumulative 7.0% trust preferred securities were issued through a newly formed special purpose trust, svb capital ii. we received $51.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of 7.0% junior subordinated debentures to svb capital ii. a portion of the net proceeds were used to redeem the existing $40.0 million of 8.25% trust preferred securities. approximately $1.3 million of deferred issuance costs related to redemption of the $40.0 million 8.25% trust preferred securities were included in interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2003. 30 net interest income is affected by changes in the amount and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as volume change. net interest income is also affected by changes in yields earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as rate change . the following table sets forth changes in interest income for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest expense for each major category of interest-bearing liabilities. the table also reflects the amount of simultaneous changes attributable to both volume and rate for the years indicated. for this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated in proportion to the percentage changes in average volume and average rate. changes relating to investments in non-taxable municipal securities are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. 2004 compared to 2003 increase (decrease) due to changes in 2003 compared to 2002 increase (decrease) due to changes in volume rate total volume rate total (dollars in thousands) interest income: federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell $ 659 $ 954 $ 1,613 $ 3,102 $ (1,437 ) $ 1,665 investment securities 18,380 9,845 28,225 (4,696 ) (93 ) (4,789 ) loans 12,805 488 13,293 3,442 (10,912 ) (7,470 ) increase (decrease) in interest income 31,844 11,287 43,131 1,848 (12,442 ) (10,594 ) interest expense: now deposits 11 (2 ) 9 (52 ) (63 ) (115 ) regular money market deposits 922 (159 ) 763 426 (1,353 ) (927 ) bonus money market deposits 345 (310 ) 35 599 (2,768 ) (2,169 ) time deposits (1,000 ) (467 ) (1,467 ) (1,328 ) (2,607 ) (3,935 ) contingently convertible debt 481 (110 ) 371 572 572 junior subordinated debentures 1,744 (3,265 ) (1,521 ) 3,026 3,026 other borrowings (602 ) 350 (252 ) (403 ) (472 ) (875 ) increase (decrease) in interest expense 1,901 (3,963 ) (2,062 ) 2,840 (7,263 ) (4,423 ) increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 29,943 $ 15,250 $ 45,193 $ (992 ) $ (5,179 ) $ (6,171 ) 2004 compared to 2003 net interest income net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, totaled $237.4 million for 2004, an increase of $45.2 million, or 23.5%, from 2003. the increase in net interest income was the result of a $43.1 million increase in interest income and a $2.1 million decrease in interest expense. interest income net increase in interest-earning assets (volume variance) the $43.1 million increase in interest income for 2004, as compared to 2003, was primarily the result of a $31.8 million favorable volume variance. the favorable volume variance resulted from a $708.9 million, or 19.6% increase, in average interest-earning assets. we believe increases in our sources of funding, largely deposits, were the main contributors to the increase in average interest-earning assets. we believe deposits increased due to an improved venture capital funding environment and general improvements in business conditions for many of our clients. this increase in interest-earning assets was primarily centered in investment securities, which increased $502.6 million, and loans, which increased $154.4 million. 31 average investment securities increased by $502.6 million, resulting in an $18.4 million favorable volume variance. throughout 2004, we continued our investment strategy of changing the investment portfolio mix by increasing the portion of the portfolio invested in relatively higher-yielding mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. our average investments in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations collectively increased by $564.8 million for 2004 as compared to 2003, largely funded by increases in client deposits. we estimated the duration of our investment portfolio increased to 2.1 at december 31, 2004, from 1.7 at december 31, 2003. the increase in duration was primarily due to the increase in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations whose average duration is typically in the 2 to 5 year range. in addition, average loans increased by $154.4 million, or 8.6% in 2004 as compared to 2003, resulting in a $12.8 million favorable volume variance. the volume variance is largely driven by growth in our commercial loan category, which increased by $107.5 million. in particular, the average balances of higher-yielding loan products such as asset-based loans and accounts receivable factoring increased by $39.4 million and $68.6 million, respectively. in addition, we also grew our average real estate and consumer loan portfolios. the increase in average loans reflects an improvement in economic activity and in the markets served by us. these new loans continue to be subject to our existing underwriting practices. our strategy is to grow average loans modestly during 2005 as our corporate technology efforts continue to develop. average federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell for 2004 increased by $51.9 million, or 13.5%, resulting in a $0.7 million favorable volume variance. the increase was mainly due to the growth in funding sources, primarily noninterest-bearing demand deposits. interest income shift in the composition of average interest-earning assets (rate variance) favorable rate variances associated with each component of interest earning assets caused an $11.3 million increase in interest income in 2004 as compared to 2003. although the yields on federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell and investment securities increased and the yield on loans remained unchanged, t he yield on total average interest-earning assets remained unchanged. t he overall yield remained unchanged due to a change in the mix of our total average interest-earning assets. in 2004, investment securities represented 44.8% of our total average interest-earning assets and loans represented 45.1% of our total average interest-earning assets. in 2003, investment securities represented 39.7% of our total average interest-earning assets, and loans represented 49.6% of our total average interest-earning assets. thus, the increase in yields on federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell and investment securities in 2004 as compared to 2003 was offset by the change in overall composition of our interest-earning assets. we increased our prime lending rate by 25 basis points on five occasions in the latter half of 2004, increasing it from 4.00% to 5.25%. as of december 31, 2004, approximately 81.3%, or $1.9 billion, of our outstanding loans were variable rate loans, which would re-price with any further increase or any decrease in our prime lending rate, unless restricted by the terms of any such loans. the yield on investment securities increased by 51 basis points to 4.1% in 2004 from 3.6% for 2003, causing a $9.8 million favorable rate variance. this was primarily due to a shift in the composition of a portion of the investment portfolio to relatively higher-yielding mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. we also realized a $1.0 million favorable rate variance associated with our federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell , which is largely driven by higher short-term market interest rates in 2004 as compared to 2003. we expect to continue the trend of managing federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell at appropriate levels for our liquidity needs. 32 interest expense total interest expense for 2004 decreased by $2.1 million from 2003, despite a $166.8 million, or 10.1% increase in our interest-bearing liabilities. the decrease in interest expense was primarily the result of a $4.0 million favorable rate variance, partially offset by a $1.9 million unfavorable volume variance. we experienced a favorable rate variance of $4.0 million primarily due to lower interest expense related to borrowing. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we recognized $1.3 million in deferred issuance costs associated with the early redemption of the $40.0 million, 8.25% trust preferred securities. also, in the fourth quarter of 2003, we issued $51.5 million in 7.0% junior subordinated debentures and simultaneously entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $50.0 million. this interest rate swap agreement hedges against the risk of changes in fair value associated with our 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. the terms of this fair value hedge agreement provide for a swap of our 7.0% fixed rate payment for a variable rate based on libor plus a spread. for 2004, we paid interest expense of $3.5 million on the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. however, the fair value hedge agreement provided income of $2.2 million, resulting in net interest expense of $1.3 million for 2004. there were significant fluctuations in several line items of the total interest expense volume variance, which largely offset each other. in particular, the implementation sfas no. 150 and fin no. 46 in mid 2003 required us to reclassify our trust preferred securities to the long-term debt category during 2003. additionally, these accounting pronouncements also required us to classify the trust preferred securities distribution expense as interest expense, on a prospective basis. the trust preferred distribution expense had previously been classified as noninterest expense. increases in regular money market and bonus money market deposits contributed a $1.3 million unfavorable variance to the total interest expense volume variance. this unfavorable volume variance was largely offset by lower time deposits, which provided a $1.0 million favorable volume variance. due to the general improvement in the venture capital funding environment, highly-liquid money market deposits have increased by $247.1 million, while longer-term time deposits have decreased by $155.9 million. our clients may use time deposits as collateral for letters of credit issued by silicon valley bank on their behalf, to certain third parties such as real estate lessors. we believe time deposits have decreased partly because of a softer real estate market, which generally reduces the frequency of these types of arrangements. moreover, due to the general improvement in the economic environment, borrowings secured by time deposits have decreased. a shift of client funds from time deposits to more liquid money market deposits also contributed to the favorable rate variance. the average cost of funds of 0.3% for 2004 represented a slight decrease from 0.4% in 2003. the decrease was largely attributable to a decrease in the cost of borrowings and to a relative increase in noninterest-bearing funding sources as a percentage of total funding sources. 2003 compared to 2002 net interest income net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis totaled $192.2 million in 2003, a decrease of $6.2 million, or 3.1%, from $198.4 million in 2002. the decrease in net interest income was due to a $10.6 million, or 4.9%, decline in interest income, offset by a $4.4 million, or 24.7%, decrease in interest expense over the comparable prior-year period. interest expense in 2003 included $3.0 million relating to the sfas no. 150 and fin no. 46-mandated classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense as interest expense for the latter half of 2003. for periods prior to june 30, 2003, trust preferred securities 33 distribution expense was classified as noninterest expense and therefore did not impact the net interest margin. interest income impact of declining market interest rates on interest-earning asset (rate variance) throughout the decreasing market interest rate environment, we implemented numerous measures to minimize the impact to our net interest margin. these measures included diversifying the product mix in the investment portfolio to higher yielding, high-quality assets and reducing rates paid on interest-bearing deposits. additionally, we increased the duration of our investment securities portfolio by replacing certain short-term, lower yielding securities with longer-term, higher-yielding securities such as collateralized mortgage obligations, thereby taking advantage of a steeper interest rate curve. overall, the duration of our investment securities portfolio increased to approximately 1.7 years in 2003, from approximately 1.5 years in 2002. the $10.6 million decrease in interest income for 2003, as compared to 2002, was the result of a $12.4 million unfavorable rate variance associated with each component of interest-earning assets, partially offset by a $1.8 million favorable volume variance. market interest rates decreased slightly during 2003, which caused the weighted average prime rate to decline by 55 basis points from 4.7% in 2002. consequently, the yield on loans decreased by 60 basis points in 2003 to 8.3% from 8.9% in 2002. in 2003, we incurred a $10.9 million unfavorable rate variance associated with our loan portfolio. floating rate loans, which represent approximately 81.2% of our total loan portfolio, produced lower interest income due to a lower average prime rate in 2003 compared to 2002. the average yield on federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell also decreased due to the decline in market interest rates from 1.9% in 2002 to 1.2% in 2003, which caused a $1.4 million unfavorable rate variance. interest income net increase in interest-earning assets (volume variance) total average interest-earning assets in 2003 increased $156.2 million, or 4.5% as compared to the prior year. the increase in total average interest-earning assets was principally funded by an increase in average noninterest-bearing deposits of $246.0 million, or 16.2%, and an increase in average long-term debt of $81.7 million, or 343.8%, offset by a decrease in average stockholders equity of $136.0 million, or 21.6%. the increase in average long-term debt was principally due to the issuance of $150.0 million of zero coupon convertible debt in may 2003. the net proceeds from the issuance of the convertible debt were largely used to repurchase our common stock, which resulted in the aforementioned decrease in average stockholders equity. average loans increased $37.7 million, or 2.1%, in 2003, as compared to 2002, resulting in a $3.4 million favorable volume variance. in 2003, we grew our average loan portfolio to a record level by continuing to focus on attracting corporate technology clients, which we believed were under-served by our competitors. we experienced loan growth across most of the industry sectors we serve. average investment securities for 2003 decreased $113.5 million, or 7.3%, as compared to 2002, resulting in a $4.7 million unfavorable volume variance. the decrease in average investment securities was primarily concentrated in short-term investments, partially offset by an increase in longer-term collateralized mortgage obligations. average federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell increased $232.0 million, or 151.4%, in 2003, as compared to the prior year, resulting in a $3.1 million favorable volume variance. this increase was primarily due to a change in the investment portfolio mix. the yield on average interest-earning assets decreased 60 basis points in 2003 from the prior year. this decrease primarily resulted from a decline in short-term market interest rates; thus, we earned lower yields on each component of our interest-earning assets. 34 interest expense total interest expense in 2003 decreased $4.4 million from 2002. this decrease was due to a favorable rate variance of $7.4 million, partially offset by an unfavorable volume variance of $3.0 million. the favorable rate variance between 2003 and 2002 primarily resulted from a reduction in the average rates paid on all of our interest-bearing deposits, particularly those rates paid on our time deposit and bonus money market deposit products. the unfavorable volume variance was due in large part to the sfas no. 150-mandated classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense of $3.0 million as interest expense for the latter half of 2003. trust preferred securities distribution expense was previously classified as noninterest expense. of the $3.0 million in trust preferred securities distribution expense, approximately $1.3 million related to the recognition of deferred issuance costs in the fourth quarter of 2003, due to the early redemption of our 8.25% trust preferred securities. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement to swap our 7.0% fixed payment on junior subordinated debentures for a variable rate based on the london inter-bank offer rate (libor) plus a spread. additionally, we experienced an unfavorable volume variance related to long-term debt of $1.0 million. in the second quarter of 2003, we issued $150.0 million of zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes, with a maturity of june 15, 2008. although no interest was paid on the notes, we experienced an increase in interest expense due to amortization of the contingently convertible debt issuance costs. the overall unfavorable volume variance caused primarily by long-term debt and trust preferred securities was partially offset by average time deposits, which decreased from $611.0 million in 2002 to $485.1 million in 2003, causing a $1.3 million favorable volume variance. the average cost of funds paid on average interest-bearing liabilities in 2003 was 0.8% down from 1.1% in 2002. this decrease in the average cost of funds was largely due to a decrease of 50 basis points on the average rates paid on both our money market deposit and time deposit products. provision for loan losses the provision for loan losses is based on our evaluation of the adequacy of the existing allowance for loan and lease losses in relation to total loans and on our periodic assessment of the inherent and identified risk dynamics of the loan portfolio resulting from reviews of selected individual loans and loan commitments. for a more detailed discussion of credit quality and the allowance for loan and lease losses, see item 7. critical accounting policies and item 7. financial condition credit quality and the allowance for loan and lease losses. 2004 compared to 2003 continued improved credit quality prompts further recovery of provision for loan losses we realized a recovery of provision for loan losses of $9.9 million in 2004 compared to a recovery of provision for loan losses of $8.7 million in 2003. in 2003, our loan loss recoveries exceeded loan charge offs by $0.2 million. we incurred net charge-offs of approximately $2.3 million in 2004 and credit quality remained strong with nonperforming loans at 0.6% of gross loans. we realized a slight net recovery of loan losses in 2003. we believe the improvement in the recovery of loan losses was primarily attributable to our improved credit risk management and to improved economic conditions. 2003 compared to 2002 improved credit quality leads to recovery of provision for loan losses we realized a recovery of provision for loan losses of $8.7 million in 2003, as compared to provision for loan losses of $7.2 million in 2002. we realized a slight net recovery of loan losses in 2003, compared to 35 net charge-offs of $5.8 million in 2002. the change in provision for loan losses for 2003, as compared to 2002, resulted from the improvement in our loan portfolio credit quality position. a large part of the loan recoveries in 2003 related to a settlement in august 2003 of litigation commenced by us relating to a charged-off film loan. this was reflected in the provision for loan losses for both the third quarter and nine months ended september 30, 2003. in october 2000, we filed a civil lawsuit for approximately $8.3 million (plus attorneys fees and interest) in the united states district court for the central district of california, against certain insurance companies for various causes of action, including breach of contract, breach of the duty of good faith, and fair dealing and fraud. the lawsuit concerned our claim for insurance coverage under an insurance policy issued to us by these insurance companies related to a loan made by us to finance production of a film. in the third quarter of 2003, the parties entered into a confidential and mutually agreeable settlement agreement, after which we dismissed the lawsuit. as a result of the settlement, we recorded significant recovery related to a previously charged-off film loan. noninterest income the following table summarizes the components of noninterest income and the percent change from year to year: years ended december 31, % change % change 2004 2003 2004/2003 2002 2003/2002 (dollars in thousands ) client investment fees $ 26,919 $ 23,991 12.2 % $ 30,671 (21.8 )% corporate finance fees 21,913 13,149 66.7 12,110 8.6 letter of credit and foreign exchange income 16,399 12,856 27.6 15,225 (15.6 ) deposit service charges 13,538 13,202 2.5 9,072 45.5 income from client warrants 9,191 7,528 22.1 1,661 353.2 investment gains (losses) 5,571 (8,402 ) 166.3 (9,825 ) (14.5 ) credit card fees 2,817 3,431 (17.9 ) 955 259.3 other 9,685 9,305 4.1 7,989 16.5 total noninterest income $ 106,033 $ 75,060 41.3 % $ 67,858 10.6 % 2004 compared to 2003 increases in most components drive 41.3% increase at december 31, 2004 at december 31, 2003 at december 31, 2002 (dollars in millions) client investment funds(1): private label client investment funds $ 7,260.3 $ 7,615.3 $ 7,642.1 client investment assets under management 2,678.1 591.6 sweep funds 1,351.2 1,139.2 853.2 total client investment funds $ 11,289.6 $ 9,346.1 $ 8,495.3 (1) client funds invested through silicon valley bancshares, maintained at third party financial institutions. we offer investment products and services that include mutual funds and other investments, sweep products, and asset management services to our clients. our fees, calculated on clients average balances, ranged from 9 to 70 basis points (fixed income securities and federated sweep, respectively) as of december 31, 2004, compared to a range of 10 to 100 basis points as of december 31, 2003. 36 total client investment funds were $11.3 billion at december 31, 2004, compared to $9.3 billion at december 31, 2003, an increase of $2.0 billion, or 20.8%. as of december 31, 2004, client investment funds under management accounted for $2.7 billion, or 23.7%, of total client investment funds. mutual fund products were $6.2 billion at december 31, 2004, and $6.4 billion at december 31, 2003. client investment fee income increased by $2.9 million from 2003 to 2004. client investment fee for 2004 was $26.9 million. the increased income was largely attributable to the growth in client investment funds. the increase in corporate finance fees in 2004 over 2003 was in large part due to a single large investment banking transaction, which generated $6.1 million in fees. svb alliant business is highly variable so we expect to see significant changes in corporate finance fees from year to year. the increase in letter of credit and foreign exchange income was primarily due to a higher volume of client foreign exchange transactions, which resulted from increased global economic activity associated with our clients markets. in 2004, we recognized income from client warrants of $9.2 million, as compared to $7.5 million in 2003. we have historically obtained rights to acquire stock, in the form of warrants, in certain clients, primarily as part of negotiated credit facilities. the receipt of warrants does not change the loan pricing, covenants, or other collateral control techniques we employ to mitigate the risk of a loan becoming nonperforming. the collateral requirements on loans with warrants are similar to lending arrangements where warrants are not obtained. the timing and amount of income from the disposition of client warrants typically depends on factors beyond our control, including the general condition of the public equity markets as well as the merger and acquisition environment. we therefore cannot predict the timing and amount of warrant-related income with any degree of accuracy, and it is likely to vary materially from period to period. we recognized net investment gains in 2004, as compared to net investment losses in 2003. investment gains for 2004 were concentrated in our managed funds of funds, our managed venture capital fund, and direct equity investments. losses on our equity investments, excluding the impact of minority interest, were $1.0 for 2004 compared to $2.8 million for 2003. we expect continued variability in the performance of our equity portfolio. 2003 compared to 2002 decreases in client investment fees and foreign exchange income, partially offset by an increase in deposit service charges. client investment fees decreased in 2003 from 2002. fees on clients average balances ranged from 10 to 100 basis points in 2003 and 12.5 to 107 basis points in 2002. at december 31, 2003, $9.3 billion in client funds were invested in these products, compared to $8.5 billion in 2002. of these funds, $6.4 billion and $8.5 billion were invested in mutual fund products as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. total invested client funds have increased between 2003 and 2002, however the decrease in client investment fees from year to year was due to a shift in client investment mix. the sustained low interest rate environment has caused lower priced investment products to become a more attractive investment strategy for many of our clients. in the first quarter of 2003, we established a registered investment advisor (svb asset management) to meet the demand for active management of client investment portfolios. this action will allow us to provide a more expansive and competitive array of investment products and services to our clients. while the fees earned per dollar managed has been reduced, our strategy is to make up for the lower fees through greater volume. at december 31, 2003, svb asset management had $591.6 million of assets under management. 37 deposit service charges increased in 2003 over 2002 as we have expanded and enhanced our suite of fee-based financial (depository) services and client usage has increased overall. clients compensate us for depository services, either through earnings credits computed on their demand deposit balances or via explicit payments that we recognize as deposit service charges income. earnings credits are calculated using client average daily deposit balances less a reserve requirement and a discounted u.s. treasury bill interest rate. clients received lower earnings credits in 2003 compared to 2002 due to lower short-term market interest rates, resulting in fewer earnings credits to offset deposit service charges. corporate finance fees increased slightly in 2003 from 2002. corporate finance fees totaled $12.1 million in 2002. in 2002, svb alliant, our investment-banking subsidiary, generated the entire balance of $12.1 million. svb alliant revenues are typically a function of the valuation of its clients mergers and acquisitions transactions. economic events depressed valuations of high technology and life science corporations in 2002 and 2003. thus, svb alliant has not achieved its merger and acquisition revenue goals. consequently, we incurred aggregate impairment of goodwill charges of $63.0 million in 2003; see the discussion under the heading noninterest expense contained later in this management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section. letter of credit fees, foreign exchange fees, and other trade finance income decreased between 2002 and 2003 as a result of increased competition and increased availability of these product types from other financial institutions. due to an increase in client initial public offering and mergers and acquisition activities, the income from client warrants increased between 2002 and 2003. credit card fees have continued to increase year over year as a result of our increased efforts to market a full range of fee-based financial services to our clients. in 2003, client usage of this product has increased, as well has fees charged for this line of service. we experienced improvements in investment securities losses from year to year. the 2003 and 2002 losses primarily related to the write-downs of certain venture capital fund and direct equity investments. excluding the impact of minority interest, the net write-downs of our equity securities totaled approximately $2.8 million in 2003 and $4.1 million in 2002. other noninterest income largely consisted of service-based fee income associated with our deposit and loan services as well as fund management fees. 38 noninterest expense the following table presents the detail of noninterest expense and the percent change, year over year: year ended december 31, % change % change 2004 2003 2004/2003 2002 2003/2002 (dollars in thousands) compensation and benefits $ 155,097 $ 122,964 26.1 % $ 104,285 17.9 % net occupancy 17,590 17,638 (0.3 ) 20,391 (13.5 ) professional services 17,068 13,677 24.8 18,385 (25.6 ) furniture and equipment 12,403 11,289 9.9 9,562 18.1 business development and travel 9,718 8,692 11.8 8,426 3.2 correspondent bank fees 5,340 4,343 23.0 2,835 53.2 data processing services 3,647 4,288 (14.9 ) 4,360 (1.7 ) telephone 3,367 3,187 5.6 3,123 2.0 postage and supplies 3,255 2,601 25.1 3,190 (18.5 ) tax credit funds amortization 2,480 2,704 (8.3 ) 2,963 (8.7 ) impairment of goodwill 1,910 63,000 (97.0 ) 100.0 provision for loan loss contingency 1,549 2,504 (38.1 ) (3,338 ) 175.0 trust preferred securities distributions 594 (100.0 ) 2,230 (73.4 ) other 9,062 7,710 17.5 6,624 16.4 total noninterest expense $ 242,486 $ 265,191 (8.6 )% $ 183,036 44.9 % 2004 compared to 2003 decrease in impairment of goodwill, increases in compensation and benefits and professional services expense the increase in compensation and benefits expense of $32.1 million was primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation expense of $17.5 million, or 108.1%, to $33.7 million during 2004, compared to $16.2 million during 2003. incentive compensation at svb alliant increased $6.9 million and was driven by a 66.7% increase in investment banking revenues from $13.1 million to $21.9 million. the remaining increase in incentive compensation is largely attributable to improved financial performance of silicon valley bank. the remainder of the increase in compensation and benefit expense during 2004 was largely due to increases in salaries and wages expense, employee stock ownership plan expense, and equity-based compensation expense. salaries and wages expense increased by $3.6 million, or 4.6%, to $82.6 million during 2004, compared to $78.9 million during 2003. the increase was primarily attributable to higher rates of employee salaries and wages. average full-time equivalent (fte) personnel was 999 during 2004, a slight increase from 994 fte personnel during 2003. employee stock ownership plan expense increased by $3.0 million, or 78.7%, to $6.8 million during 2004, compared to $3.8 million during 2003. the increase was attributable to our improved consolidated financial performance. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management a key objective of asset/liability management is to manage interest rate risk associated with changing asset and liability cash flows and market interest rate movements. interest rate risk occurs when interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities do not re-price simultaneously either in timing, volume or both. our alco provides oversight to our interest rate risk management process and recommends policy guidelines regarding exposure to interest rates for approval by our board of directors. adherence to these policies is monitored on an ongoing basis, and decisions related to the management of interest rate exposure are made when appropriate. we manage interest rate risk principally through strategies involving our investment securities portfolio. our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments in managing interest rate risk. derivative instruments that the company uses as a part of its interest risk management strategy may include interest rate swaps, caps and floors, and forward contracts. we had a fair value hedge in effect at december 31, 2004. this hedge is a $50.0 million fixed-for-variable swap of our 7% junior subordinated debentures, described in item 8 consolidated financial statements and supplementary data note 12. borrowings and under item 7. md&amp;a financial condition 7% junior subordinated debentures. for 2004, we paid interest expense of $3.5 million on the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. however, the fair value hedge agreement provided a benefit of $2.2 million, resulting in net interest expense of $1.3 million for 2004. our monitoring activities related to managing interest rate risk include both interest rate sensitivity gap analysis and the use of a simulation model. while traditional gap analysis provides a simple picture of the interest rate risk embedded in the balance sheet, it provides only a static view of interest rate sensitivity at a specific point in time and does not measure the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. accordingly, we combine the use of gap analysis with use of a simulation model that provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity. interest rate sensitivity analysis the interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-sensitive liabilities that are anticipated to re-price within a specific time period. a gap is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest-sensitive liabilities re-pricing within that same time period. positive cumulative gaps in early time periods suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates rise. negative cumulative gaps suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates fall. the gap analysis as of december 31, 2004 indicates that the cumulative one-year gap as a percentage of interest-earning assets was a positive 31%. 72 the following table illustrates our interest rate sensitivity gap positions at december 31, 2004: assets and liabilities which mature or reprice immediately 1 day to 1 month after 1 month to 3 months after 3 months to 6 months after 6 months to 1 year after 1 year to 5 years after 5 years not stated total (dollars in thousands) interest-earning assets: cash and due from banks $ $ 295,588 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 295,588 federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell(1) 150,360 150,360 investment securities: u.s. treasury and agencies obligations(2) 611 27,486 220,000 60,000 308,097 collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities(2) 30,425 31,613 48,244 91,535 634,453 673,086 1,509,356 obligations of states and political subdivisions 1,715 2,475 7,380 77,832 8,635 98,037 commercial paper and other debt securities 92,573 92,573 money market mutual funds 98,548 98,548 other equity securities(3) 20,765 20,765 total investment securities 222,157 33,328 50,719 126,401 932,285 741,721 20,765 2,127,376 loans(4)(5) 1,629,413 136,025 95,083 78,754 101,547 247,051 24,271 2,312,144 total interest-earning assets $ 1,629,413 $ 804,130 $ 128,411 $ 129,473 $ 227,948 $ 1,179,336 $ 765,992 $ 20,765 $ 4,885,468 funding sources: interest-bearing demand $ $ 66,246 $ 127,566 $ 179,636 $ 320,818 $ 1,375,493 $ 580,094 $ $ 2,649,853 money market and now deposits 28,982 55,887 78,888 141,522 624,064 308,745 1,238,088 time deposits 185,860 54,674 57,997 28,170 4,874 331,575 total interest-bearing deposits 281,088 238.127 316,521 490,510 2,004,431 888,839 4,219,516 contingently convertible debt 146,740 146,740 junior subordinated debentures 49,421 49,421 other borrowings 9,820 9,820 portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 459,971 459,971 total funding sources $ $ 281,088 $ 238,127 $ 326,341 $ 490,510 $ 2,151,171 $ 938,260 $ 459,971 $ 4,885,468 off-balance sheet items: interest rate swap $ $ (50,000 ) $ $ $ $ 50,000 $ $ $ gap 1,629,413 473,042 (109,716 ) (196,868 ) (262,562 ) (921,835 ) (172,268 ) (439,206 ) cumulative gap 1,629,413 2,102,455 1,992,739 1,795,871 1,533,309 611,474 439,206 (1) includes interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $15.9 million as of december 31, 2004. (2) principal cash flows are based on estimated principal payments as of december 31, 2004. (3) not stated column consists of investments in federal reserve and federal home loan bank stock as of december 31, 2004. (4) not stated column consists of nonaccrual loans of $14.3 million offset by unearned income of $14.4 million as of december 31, 2004. (5) maturity/repricing columns for fixed rate loans are based upon the amount and timing of related principal payments as of december 31, 2004. 73 market value of portfolio equity (mvpe) one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on the net present value of estimated cash flows from our assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet items, defined as our market value of portfolio equity (mvpe). the following table presents our mvpe exposure at december 31, 2004 and 2003, related to an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in mvpe estimated net interest estimated increase/ (decrease) in net interest income change in interest rates (basis points) mvpe amount percent income amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2004: +200 $ 1,019,622 $ 20,290 2.0 % $ 326,744 $ 41,285 14.5 % +100 1,014,190 14,858 1.5 306,492 21,033 7.4 - 999,332 285,459 -100 936,599 (62,733 ) (6.3 ) 257,295 (28,164 ) (9.9 ) -200 876,445 (122,887 ) (12.3 ) 230,514 (54,945 ) (19.2 ) december 31, 2003: +200 $ 801,630 $ 38,377 5.0 % $ 236,305 $ 17,244 7.9 % +100 796,232 32,979 4.3 226,153 7,092 3.2 - 763,253 219,061 -100 791,797 28,544 3.7 214,233 (4,828 ) (2.2 ) -200 735,833 (27,420 ) (3.6 ) 210,769 (8,292 ) (3.8 ) the preceding table indicates that at december 31, 2004, in the event of an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates, our mvpe would be expected to increase or decrease accordingly. the market value calculations supporting the results in the preceding table are based on the present value of estimated cash flows using both market interest rates provided by independent broker/dealers and other publicly available sources that we deem reliable. these calculations do not contemplate any changes that we could make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. for example, although certain of our assets and liabilities may have similar maturity or re-pricing profiles, they may react to changes in market interest rates with different magnitudes. also, actual prepayment rates on loans and investments could vary substantially from the assumptions utilized in the model to derive the results as presented in the preceding table. further, a change in the shape of the forward yield curve could result in different mvpe estimations from those presented herein. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as indicative of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our mvpe exposure at december 31, 2004, increased slightly from december 31, 2003, primarily due to changes in the investment portfolio while staying well within our policy guidelines. in addition, our net interest income at risk remains well within policy limits. these estimates are highly assumption dependent and will change regularly as the company asset-liability structure changes and as different interest rate environments evolve. we expect to continue to manage our interest rate risk actively utilizing on and off-balance sheet strategies as appropriate. 74 the simulation model also gives us the ability to simulate our net interest income using an interest rate forecast (simple simulation). in order to measure the sensitivity of our forecasted net interest income to changing interest rates utilizing the simple simulation methodology, both a rising and falling interest rate scenario are projected and compared to a base market interest rate forecast derived from the current yield curve. for the rising and falling interest rate scenarios, the base market interest rate forecast is increased or decreased, as applicable, by 200 basis points in 12 equal increments over a one-year period. in addition to the 200 basis point ramp scenario mentioned above we perform net interest income and net income simulations in an interest rate environment whereby we shock the base rate immediately both up and down 300 basis points in 100 basis point increments. the combination of the ramp and shock scenarios provides us with additional information with respect to our sensitivity to interest rates and the impact on our net income under varied interest rate scenarios. our policy guidelines provide that the difference between a base market interest rate forecast scenario over the succeeding one-year period compared with the aforementioned rising and falling interest rate scenarios over the same time period should not result in net interest income degradation exceeding 25.0%. simulations as of december 31, 2004, indicated that we were well within these policy guidelines. interest rate risk is the most significant market risk impacting us. other types of market risk affecting us in the normal course of our business activities include foreign currency exchange risk, equity price risk, and basis risk. the impact resulting from these market risks is not considered significant, and no separate quantitative information concerning market rate and price exposure is presented herein. 75 factors that may affect future results our business faces significant risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face, and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. if a significant number of clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability, and financial condition would be adversely affected. as a lender, the largest risk we face is the possibility that a significant number of our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause losses in excess of our allowance for loan and lease losses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our experience and judgment. we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan and lease losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, or financial condition. because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile, and we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could cause reduced net income or increased net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. many of our loans are made to companies in the early stages of development with negative cash flow and no established record of profitable operations. in many cases, repayment of the loan is dependent upon receipt of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others. collateral for many of the loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in our technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. we also make loans that are larger, relative to the revenues of the borrower, than those made by traditional small business lenders, so the impact of any single borrower default may be more significant to us. because of these characteristics, our level of nonperforming loans and loan charge-offs can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. changes in our level of nonperforming loans may require us to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest spread could have a material impact on our business and profitability. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, and unemployment. in addition, legislative changes could affect the manner in which we pay interest on deposits or other liabilities. for example, congress has for many years debated repealing a law that prohibits banks from paying interest rates on checking accounts. if this law were to be repealed, we would be subject to competitive pressure to pay interest on our clients checking accounts, which would negatively affect our interest rate spread. any material decline in our interest rate spread would have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. 76 decreases in the amount of equity capital available to start-up and emerging-growth companies could adversely affect our business, profitability, and growth prospects. our strategy has focused on providing banking products and services to emerging-growth and corporate technology companies receiving financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capitalists, angels, and corporate investors. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive a second or third round of equity infusion from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which would have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies are the receptivity of the capital markets to initial public offerings or mergers and acquisitions of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, and general economic conditions in the technology and life science industries. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. our business is dependent upon access to funds on attractive terms. we derive our net interest income through lending or investing capital on terms that provide returns in excess of our costs for obtaining that capital. as a result, our credit ratings are extremely important to our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs (or trigger obligations under certain existing borrowings and other contracts), or increase the interest rates we pay our depositors. further, our credit ratings and the terms upon which we have access to capital may be influenced by circumstances beyond our control, such as overall trends in the general market environment, perceptions about our creditworthiness or market conditions in the industries in which we focus. in the event that we further change our method of accounting for stock compensation expense, our cash flows and results of operations, as well as our ability to attract, recruit, and retain certain key employees, could be adversely affected. we account for our employee stock options in accordance with accounting principles board opinion no. 25 and related interpretations, which provide that any compensation expense relative to employee stock options be measured based on the intrinsic value of the stock options. as a result, when options are priced at the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant, as is our practice, we incur no compensation expense. in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment, which is a revision of sfas no. 123 and supersedes apb no. 25. sfas no. 123(r) requires us to record compensation expense for all employee stock grants. such expense will have a material impact on our results of operations. in october 2004, in an effort to align our option grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we significantly decreased the number of shares subject to options granted to our employees on a prospective basis. we may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other forms of equity compensation. our decision to reduce the number of option shares to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other future changes we may adopt in our employee compensation structures, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit, and retain certain key employees. 77 we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries are extensively regulated under federal and state law. these regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other clients, and the deposit insurance fund not for the benefit of stockholders or security holders. federal and state laws and regulations limit or otherwise affect the activities in which silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries may engage. a change in the applicable statutes, regulations, or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business and that of our subsidiaries. in addition, silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries are required to maintain certain minimum levels of capital. federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory action, as they deem appropriate, with respect to silicon valley bancshares and silicon valley bank. svb alliant and svb securities, both broker-dealer subsidiaries, are regulated by the sec and the national association of securities dealers, inc. (nasd). violations of the stringent regulations governing the actions of a broker-dealer can result in the revocation of broker-dealer licenses, the imposition of censures or fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion from the securities business of a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions can result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, and limitations on the activities of silicon valley bancshares, silicon valley bank or their subsidiaries. these supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. warrant, venture capital fund, and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which is uncertain. we have historically obtained rights to acquire stock, in the form of warrants, in certain clients as part of negotiated credit facilities and for other services. we may not be able to realize gains from warrants in future periods, or our realized gains may be materially less than the current level of unrealized gains disclosed in this filing. we also have made investments in venture capital funds as well as direct equity investments in companies. the timing and amount of income, if any, from the disposition of client warrants, venture capital funds, and direct equity investments typically depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying portfolio companies, investor demand for initial public offerings, fluctuations in the market prices of the underlying common stock of these companies, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. in addition, our investments in venture capital funds and direct equity investments have lost value and could continue to lose value or become worthless, which would reduce our net income or could cause a net loss in any period. all of these factors are difficult to predict, particularly in the current economic environment. additionally, it is likely that additional investments within our existing portfolio will become impaired. however, we are not in a position to know at the present time which specific investments, if any, are likely to be impaired or the extent or timing of individual impairments. therefore, we cannot predict future investment gains or losses with any degree of accuracy, and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. public offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients can cause loans to be paid off early, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering or are acquired or merge with another company. any significant reduction in our outstanding loans could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. 78 adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology sector and particularly in california, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, and profitability. if conditions worsen in the domestic or global economy, especially in the technology, life science, private equity, and premium wine industry niches, our business, growth, and profitability are likely to be materially adversely affected. a worsening of the global or u.s. economic slowdown would harm many of our clients. our clients may be particularly sensitive to disruptions in the growth of the technology sector of the u.s. economy. in addition, a substantial number of our clients are geographically concentrated in california, and adverse economic conditions in california could harm the businesses of a disproportionate number of our clients. to the extent that our clients underlying businesses are harmed, they are more likely to default on their loans. if we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we rely on experienced client relationship managers and on officers and employees with strong relationships with the venture capital community to generate new business. if a significant number of these employees were to leave us, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we believe that our employees frequently have opportunities for alternative employment with competing financial institutions and with our clients. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our historical levels of profitability in the face of sustained competitive pressures. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies, many of which are larger and have more capital than we do, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies, early stage growth companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges. we face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. we completed one acquisition in each of 2002 and 2001 and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we intend to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are strategic. there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully or integrate such acquisitions with our current business. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and/or contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. any such future acquisitions of other businesses, technologies, services, or products might require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all; and such financing, if available, might be dilutive. upon completion of an acquisition, we are faced with the challenges of integrating the operations, services, products, personnel, and systems of acquired companies into our business, which may divert management attention from ongoing business operations. in addition, acquisitions of new businesses may subject us to regulatory scrutiny. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating any acquired business effectively into the operations of our business. moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. 79 the success of our acquisitions is dependent on the continued employment of several key employees. if acquired businesses do not meet projected revenue targets, or if certain key employees were to leave the businesses, we could conclude that the value of the businesses has decreased and that the related goodwill has been impaired. if we were to conclude that goodwill has been impaired that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. we offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. the secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintain our clients confidence in our online services. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. people generally are concerned with security and privacy on the internet and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with international operations. a component of our strategy is to expand internationally on a limited basis. expansion into international markets, albeit on a limited basis, requires management attention and resources. we have limited experience in internationalizing our service, and we believe that many of our competitors are also undertaking expansion into foreign markets. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding into international markets. in addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations and to expand our international presence, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, regulatory requirements, legal uncertainty regarding liability, tariffs, and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, problems in collecting loan or other types of payments, political instability, seasonal reductions in business activity, and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely affect the success of our international operations. to the extent we continue to expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we could become subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. there can be no assurance that one or more of the factors discussed above will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and client demands. there is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products or services. a failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, or a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, or growth prospects. 80 business interruptions due to natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our business. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, power failures, telecommunication loss, terrorist attacks, and acts of war. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or manmade, could cause severe destruction or interruption to our operations and as a result, our business could suffer serious harm. to mitigate these risks we have begun a phased business continuity program, with initial capabilities scheduled to become available during 2005 and additional work continuing throughout 2006. 81 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders silicon valley bancshares: we have audited management assessment, included in the accompanying management report of internal control over financial reporting, that silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries (the company) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on management assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, management assessment that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). also, in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income and stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004, and our report dated march 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. san francisco, california march 14, 2005 82 item 8. consolidated financial statements and supplementary data report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders silicon valley bancshares: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income and stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004. these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso), and our report dated march 14, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting. san francisco, california march 14, 2005 83 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets december 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands, except par value) assets cash and due from banks $ 279,653 $ 252,521 federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell 166,295 542,475 investment securities 2,258,207 1,575,434 loans, net of unearned income 2,312,143 1,989,229 allowance for loan and lease losses (37,613 ) (49,862 ) net loans 2,274,530 1,939,367 premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization 14,951 14,999 goodwill 35,639 37,549 accrued interest receivable and other assets 124,325 117,663 total assets $ 5,153,600 $ 4,480,008 liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity liabilities: deposits: noninterest-bearing demand $ 2,649,853 $ 2,186,352 now 32,009 20,897 money market 1,206,078 1,080,559 time 331,574 379,068 total deposits 4,219,514 3,666,876 contingently convertible debt 146,740 145,797 junior subordinated debentures 49,421 49,652 other borrowings 9,820 17,961 other liabilities 125,163 101,973 total liabilities 4,550,658 3,982,259 commitments and contingencies minority interest in capital of consolidated affiliates 70,674 50,744 stockholders equity: preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding common stock, $0.001 par value, 150,000,000 shares authorized; 35,970,095 and 35,028,470 shares outstanding, respectively 36 35 additional paid-in capital 44,886 14,240 retained earnings 487,509 422,131 unearned compensation (4,512 ) (1,232 ) accumulated other comprehensive income 4,349 11,831 total stockholders equity 532,268 447,005 total liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity $ 5,153,600 $ 4,480,008 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 84 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries consolidated statements of income years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) interest income: loans $ 162,063 $ 148,770 $ 156,240 investment securities: taxable 72,929 42,789 46,585 non-taxable 5,004 6,248 6,894 federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell 6,143 4,530 2,865 total interest income 246,139 202,337 212,584 interest expense: deposits 8,423 9,083 16,229 other borrowings 2,968 4,370 1,647 total interest expense 11,391 13,453 17,876 net interest income 234,748 188,884 194,708 (recovery of)/provision for loan and lease losses (9,901 ) (8,727 ) 7,220 net interest income after (recovery of)/ provision for loan losses 244,649 197,611 187,488 noninterest income: client investment fees 26,919 23,991 30,671 corporate finance fees 21,913 13,149 12,110 letter of credit and foreign exchange income 16,399 12,856 15,225 deposit service charges 13,538 13,202 9,072 income from client warrants 9,191 7,528 1,661 investment gains (losses) 5,571 (8,402 ) (9,825 ) credit card fees 2,817 3,431 955 other 9,685 9,305 7,989 total noninterest income 106,033 75,060 67,858 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 155,097 122,964 104,285 net occupancy 17,590 17,638 20,391 professional services 17,068 13,677 18,385 furniture and equipment 12,403 11,289 9,562 business development and travel 9,718 8,692 8,426 correspondent bank fees 5,340 4,343 2,835 data processing services 3,647 4,288 4,360 telephone 3,367 3,187 3,123 postage and supplies 3,255 2,601 3,190 tax credit fund amortization 2,480 2,704 2,963 impairment of goodwill 1,910 63,000 provision for loan loss contingency 1,549 2,504 (3,338 ) trust preferred securities distributions 594 2,230 other 9,062 7,710 6,624 total noninterest expense 242,486 265,191 183,036 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 108,196 7,480 72,310 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (3,079 ) 7,689 7,767 income before income tax expense 105,117 15,169 80,077 income tax expense 39,741 3,192 26,719 net income $ 65,376 $ 11,977 $ 53,358 earnings per common share-basic $ 1.86 $ 0.33 $ 1.21 earnings per common share-diluted $ 1.74 $ 0.32 $ 1.18 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 85 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries consolidated statements of comprehensive income years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) net income $ 65,376 $ 11,977 $ 53,358 other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax: cumulative translation loss: translation loss (722 ) related tax effect 301 change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale investment securities: unrealized holding gains 4,670 3,272 8,715 related tax effect (1,950 ) (1,318 ) (2,911 ) reclassification adjustment for gains included in net income (14,762 ) (7,528 ) (1,662 ) related tax effect 4,981 3,033 555 other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax (7,482 ) (2,541 ) 4,697 comprehensive income $ 57,894 $ 9,436 $ 58,055 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 86 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries consolidated statements of stockholders equity common stock additional paid-in retained unearned accumulated other comprehensive shares amount capital earnings compensation income total (dollars in thousands) balance at december 31, 2001 45,390,007 $ 45 $ 196,143 $ 423,252 $ (1,600 ) $ 9,675 $ 627,515 common stock issued under employee benefit plans, net of restricted stock cancellations 722,464 1 9,112 151 9,264 income tax benefit from stock options exercised and vesting of restricted stock 4,113 4,113 net income 53,358 53,358 amortization of unearned compensation 797 797 net change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale investment securities 4,697 4,697 common stock repurchases (5,534,378 ) (5 ) (109,389 ) (109,394 ) balance at december 31, 2002 40,578,093 41 99,979 476,610 (652 ) 14,372 590,350 common stock issued under employee benefit plans, net of restricted stock cancellations 931,684 1 14,307 (1,712 ) 12,596 income tax benefit from stock options exercised and vesting of restricted stock 3,468 3,468 net income 11,977 11,977 amortization of unearned compensation 1,132 1,132 net change in unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment securities (2,541 ) (2,541 ) warrant issuance proceeds 17,412 17,412 cost of convertible debt note hedge (39,297 ) (39,297 ) common stock repurchases (6,481,307 ) (7 ) (81,629 ) (66,456 ) (148,092 ) balance at december 31, 2003 35,028,470 35 14,240 422,131 (1,232 ) 11,831 447,005 common stock issued under employee benefit plans, net of restricted stock cancellations 1,241,625 1 30,433 (5,728 ) 24,706 income tax benefit from stock options exercised and vesting of restricted stock 12,791 12,791 net income 65,376 65,376 amortization of unearned compensation 2,448 2,448 net change in unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment securities (7,061 ) (7,061 ) foreign currency translation adjustment (421 ) (421 ) real estate investment trust dividend 2 2 common stock repurchases (300,000 ) (12,578 ) (12,578 ) balance at december 31, 2004 35,970,095 $ 36 $ 44,886 $ 487,509 $ (4,512 ) $ 4,349 $ 532,268 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 87 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries consolidated statements of cash flows years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) cash flows from operating activities: net income $ 65,376 $ 11,977 $ 53,358 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: (recoveries of)/provision for loan losses (9,901 ) (8,727 ) 7,220 net gain on disposition of client warrants (9,191 ) (7,528 ) (1,661 ) net (gain) loss on sales of investment securities (5,571 ) 8,402 9,825 depreciation and amortization 8,469 7,610 7,850 impairment of goodwill 1,910 63,000 minority interest 3,079 (7,689 ) (7,767 ) amortization of deferred stock-based compensation 2,448 1,475 948 changes in other assets and liabilities: (increase) decrease in accrued interest receivable (3,100 ) (211 ) 6,095 (increase) decrease in accounts receivable (7,326 ) (2,249 ) (930 ) deferred income tax expense/(benefit) 6,396 (16,686 ) 1,687 (increase) decrease in income tax receivable 1,378 (1,478 ) 17,141 increase in deferred rent liability 7,322 increase (decrease) in accrued retention, warrant, incentive plans and other compensation benefits payable 21,099 18,133 3,982 increase (decrease) in allowance for loan loss contingency 1,549 2,504 (3,338 ) other, net 8,060 8,602 3,894 net cash provided by operating activities 91,997 77,135 98,304 cash flows from investing activities: purchases of investment securities (12,041,008 ) (17,087,123 ) (5,277,398 ) proceeds from sales of investment securities 6,176,315 14,368,794 2,547,913 proceeds from maturities and pay downs of investment securities 5,186,295 2,667,604 3,025,729 net decrease (increase) in loans (341,579 ) 76,215 (346,824 ) proceeds from recoveries of charged off loans 14,236 20,363 22,175 purchases of premises and equipment (8,421 ) (4,723 ) (4,017 ) net cash (used for) provided by investing activities (1,014,162 ) 41,130 (32,422 ) cash flows from financing activities: net increase in deposits 552,638 230,749 55,150 decrease in other borrowings, net (8,457 ) (9,333 ) (42,000 ) capital contributions from minority interest participants 16,851 15,275 22,650 proceeds from net issuance costs, from issuance of common stock including tax benefits of certain stock option exercises 25,084 14,364 9,769 repurchase of common stock (12,578 ) (148,092 ) (109,394 ) redemption of 8.25% trust preferred securities (40,000 ) proceeds from issuance of 7.0% junior subordinated debentures, net of issuance costs 47,839 proceeds from issuance of convertible notes and warrants, net of issuance costs of convertible note hedge 123,340 net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 573,538 234,142 (63,825 ) foreign exchange effect on cash and cash equivalents (421 ) net (decrease)/ increase in cash and cash equivalents (349,048 ) 352,407 2,057 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 794,996 442,589 440,532 cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 445,948 $ 794,996 $ 442,589 supplemental disclosures: cash paid during the period for: interest paid $ 11,305 $ 13,084 $ 18,487 income taxes paid $ 25,307 $ 17,802 $ 6,812 noncash items during the period: landlord commitment to pay for building improvements included in deferred rent $ 6,992 $ $ see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 88 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. nature of business silicon valley bancshares and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the company) offer clients financial products and services through four lines of banking and financial services (see note 24 segment reporting). silicon valley bancshares (bancshares) is a bank holding company and a financial holding company whose principal subsidiary is silicon valley bank (the bank), a california-chartered bank, founded in 1983, and headquartered in santa clara, california. the bank serves more than 10,000 clients across the country, through its 25 regional offices in the united states, a subsidiary in england and one in india. the bank has 12 offices throughout california and operates regional offices across the country, in arizona, colorado, georgia, illinois, massachusetts, minnesota, new york, north carolina, oregon, pennsylvania, texas, virginia, and washington. the bank serves clients in all stages of maturity ranging from emerging-growth companies to established corporate companies in the technology and life science markets and the premium wine industry. the company defines emerging-growth clients as companies in the start-up or early stages of their lifecycle; these companies tend to be privately held and backed by venture capital; they generally have few employees, are primarily engaged in research and development, have brought relatively few products or services to market, and have no or little revenue. by contrast, the company defines established corporate clients as companies that tend to be more mature; these companies may be publicly traded, and more established in the markets in which they participate. additionally, merger, acquisition, private placement, and corporate partnering services are provided through the company wholly-owned investment banking subsidiary, svb alliant, whose offices are in california and massachusetts. 2. summary of significant accounting policies use of estimates and assumptions the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. a material estimate that is particularly susceptible to possible change in the near term relates to the determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses. an estimate of possible changes or a range of possible changes cannot be made. principles of consolidation and presentation the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of silicon valley bancshares and its wholly owned subsidiaries. intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation the company consolidates the financial position and results of operations of several managed limited partnerships as the company controls the general partners of these limited partner funds and the limited partners do not hold substantive participating rights. see note 2. non-marketable equity securities. similar accounting is applied to svb woodside financial, the general partner of taurus growth partners, lp and libra partners, lp (see note 3. business combinations). bancshares has an ownership interest of 53.2% in partners for growth, lp, and, therefore, the fund is consolidated. minority interest in capital of consolidated affiliates primarily represents the minority participants share of the equity in svb strategic investors fund, lp, svb strategic investors fund ii lp, and silicon valley bancventures, lp. additionally, certain reclassifications have been made to prior years consolidated financial statements in order to conform to the current year presentation. 89 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) historically, the company aggregated its allowance for loan and lease losses and its allowance for loan loss contingency and reflected the aggregate allowance in its allowance for loan and lease losses (alll) balance. commencing in the fourth quarter of 2004, the company reflected its allowance for loan and lease losses in its alll balance and its allowance for loan loss contingency in other liabilities. these reclassifications were also made to prior periods balance sheets to conform to current period presentations. additionally, the company reclassified expense related to the alll to provision for loan losses and expense related to changes in the allowance for loan loss contingency into noninterest expense for all periods presented. such reclassifications had no effect on our results of operations or stockholders equity. accounting for variable interest entities the company accounts for variable interest entities according to the provisions of financial accounting standards board interpretation (fin) no. 46 (revised december 2003), consolidation of variable interest entities (vie) , or fin no. 46r. fin no. 46r was issued to replace fin no. 46, and to clarify the required accounting for interests in variable interest entities. a vie is an entity that does not have sufficient equity investments at risk or for which the holders of the equity instruments lack the essential characteristics of a controlling financial interest. a vie must be consolidated by a company if that company is considered to be the primary beneficiary, either by being subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the vie activities, being entitled to receive a majority of the entity residual returns, or both. gold hill venture lending 03, lp is a vie, however the company is not the primary beneficiary. as of december 31, 2004, the company has evaluated its investments and has not consolidated any vie in its financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of fin no. 46r. cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, cash balances due from banks, federal funds sold, and securities purchased under agreement to resell. for purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the company considers cash equivalents to be highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with maturity dates of 90 days or less. federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell as reported in the consolidated balance sheet include interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $15.9 million and $1.8 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. investment securities fixed income securities fixed income investment securities are classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale, trading, or non-marketable upon purchase or acquisition. securities purchased with the ability and positive intent to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and are accounted for at historical cost, adjusted for the amortization of premiums or the accretion of discounts to maturity, where appropriate. the company did not have any investments in the held-to-maturity portfolio at december 31, 2004 and 2003. unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities 90 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) become realized and are charged against earnings when it is determined that an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. securities that are held to meet investment objectives such as interest rate risk and liquidity management, and which may be sold by the company as needed to implement management strategies are classified as available-for-sale and are accounted for at fair value. unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, after applicable taxes, are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity, until realized. permanent impairment results if (a) no fair market value can be obtained and no market is believed to exist or (b) the current fair value of the security is impaired as a result of an event whereby the contractual rights of a class of holders are deemed to be impaired. market valuations represent the current fair value of a security at a specified point in time and do not represent the risk of repayment of the principal if a security is held to maturity. gains and losses on securities are only realized upon the sale of the security prior to maturity, whereas a credit downgrade represents an increased level of risk of other-than-temporary impairment, and will only be recognized if the company assesses the downgrade to challenge the issuer ability to service the debt and to repay the principal at contractual maturity. amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on debt securities are included in interest income over the contractual terms of the underlying investment securities replicating the effective interest method. securities acquired and held principally for the purpose of sale in the near term are classified as trading and are accounted for at fair value. unrealized gains and losses resulting from fair value adjustments on trading securities, as well as gains and losses realized upon the sale of investment securities, are included in noninterest income. the company did not have a trading portfolio at december 31, 2004 or 2003. non-marketable securities include federal reserve bank and federal home loan bank stock and tax credit funds. marketable equity securities the company investments in marketable equity securities include: unexercised warrants for shares of publicly traded companies. investments in shares of publicly traded companies. equity securities in the company warrant, direct equity, and venture capital fund portfolios generally become marketable when a portfolio company completes an initial public offering on a publicly reported market or is acquired by a publicly traded company. unrealized gains on warrants and unrealized gains or losses on equity investment securities are recorded upon the establishment of a readily determinable fair value of the underlying security, as defined by statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity instruments. unrealized gains or losses after applicable taxes, on available-for-sale marketable equity securities that result from initial public offerings are excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. the company is often contractually restricted from selling equity securities for a certain period of time subsequent to the portfolio company initial public offering. often, equity securities held by the company for sale are not registered under the securities act of 1933 (the securities act). in such an event, the 91 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) company often seeks exemption from the registration requirements of the securities act by effecting sales of equity securities of the portfolio company in compliance with the current public information, holding period, volume limitation, and manner of sale requirements of rule 144 under the securities act. in addition, as an inducement to the underwriter(s) to underwrite such an offering, security holders, including the company, typically enter into an agreement with the underwriter(s) and/or the portfolio company, pursuant to which the security holder agrees to refrain from selling the securities held by such holder for a period of time, often 180 days, after the initial public offering. as a result of such regulatory and contractual requirements, the company is frequently restricted for some period of time in its ability to liquidate portfolio securities even after a portfolio company has completed an initial public offering. gains or losses on these marketable equity instruments are recorded in the company consolidated net income in the period the underlying securities are sold to a third party. if the company possesses a warrant that can be settled with net cash payment to the company, the warrant meets the definition of a derivative instrument. changes in fair value of such derivative instruments are recognized as securities gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. marketable equity securities are recorded at fair value, which initially is the purchase cost of the securities. however, a decline in the fair value of any of these securities that is considered other-than-temporary is recorded in the company consolidated net income in the period the impairment occurs. the cost basis of the underlying security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis. marketable equity securities held through the company consolidated managed limited partnership funds are recorded at fair value, which initially is the purchase cost of the securities. holdings that are saleable without restriction are valued at the most recent stock exchange closing price prior to the valuation. in addition, holdings that are subject to limitations under rule 144 and/or rule 145, underwriter lock-ups, or in cases where bancshares and its affiliates could be considered an affiliate of the issuer, are discounted to allow for possible price reduction due to restrictions on liquidity. discounts will range dependent upon many factors, including but not limited to co-investor discount(s), trading volume, and price volatility. non-marketable equity securities the company invests in non-marketable equity securities in several ways: by receipt of warrants for shares of privately held companies. by direct purchases of preferred or common stock in privately held companies. by capital contributions to venture capital funds, which in turn, make investments in preferred or common stock of privately held companies. through the company venture capital fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp, which makes investments in preferred or common stock of privately held companies. through the company funds of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, which make investments in venture capital funds, which in turn, invest in privately held companies. through the company investments in partners for growth, lp and gold hill venture lending 03, lp, which provide financing to privately-held companies in the form of loans and equity. unexercised warrant securities in private companies are initially recorded at a nominal value on the company consolidated balance sheets. they are carried at this value until they become marketable or expire, except in the following circumstance: 92 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) gains on warrant and gains or losses on equity investment securities that result from a portfolio company being acquired by a publicly traded company are marked to market when the acquisition occurs. the resulting gains or losses are recognized into consolidated net income on that date, in accordance with emerging issues task force, issue no. 91-5, nonmonetary exchange of cost-method investments. further fluctuations in the market value of these marketable equity securities are excluded from consolidated net income and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. upon the sale of these equity securities to a third party, gains and losses, which are measured from the acquisition price, are recognized in the company consolidated net income. the company accounts for non-marketable equity investment securities (including warrants), other than those held by the svb strategic investors fund, lp svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, silicon valley bancventures, lp, partners for growth, lp and gold hill venture lending 03, lp, on a cost basis. in the event of a stock-based acquisition of a non-publicly traded issuer by a publicly traded company, the company will realize gains or losses on these securities in the company consolidated net income when the transaction occurs. a summary of the company accounting policies for other non-marketable equity securities is presented in the following table. a complete description of the accounting policies follows the table. private equity and venture capital fund investments wholly owned by bancshares cost basis less identified impairment, if any owned by svb strategic investors fund, lp, svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, silicon valley bancventures, lp, partners for growth, lp, and gold hill venture lending 03, lp investment company accounting, adjusted to fair value on a quarterly basis through consolidated net income bancshares wholly owned non-marketable venture capital fund investments and other direct equity investments are recorded on a cost basis as the company interests are considered minor because the company owns less than 5.0 % of the investee companies and has no influence over the investee companies operating and financial policies. the company cost basis in each investment is reduced by returns until the cost basis of the individual investment is fully recovered. returns in excess of the cost basis are recorded as investment gains in noninterest income. the values of the investments are reviewed at least quarterly, giving consideration to the facts and circumstances of each individual investment. management review of private equity investments typically includes the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, and exit strategies. a decline in the fair value that is considered other than temporary is recorded in the company consolidated net income in the period the impairment occurs. any estimated loss is recorded in noninterest income as investment losses. investments held by silicon valley bancventures, lp are recorded at fair value using investment accounting rules. the investments consist principally of stock in private companies that are not traded on a public market and are subject to restrictions on resale. these investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by the general partner. the valuation generally remains at cost until such time that there is significant evidence of a change in values based upon consideration of the relevant market 93 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategies, and other pertinent information. the general partner, silicon valley bancventures, inc. is owned and controlled by bancshares and has an ownership interest of 10.7% in silicon valley bancventures, lp the limited partners do not have substantive participating rights. therefore, silicon valley bancventures, lp is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. the portion of any gains or losses belonging to the other limited partners is reflected in minority interest in net gains (losses) of consolidated affiliates and adjusts bancshares consolidated net income to reflect its percentage ownership. the svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp (sif i and ii) portfolios consists primarily of investments in venture capital funds, which are recorded at fair value using investment company accounting rules. the carrying value of the investments is determined by the general partners based on the percentage of sif i and ii interest in the total fair market value as provided by each venture capital fund investment. svb strategic investors, llc and svb strategic investors ii, llc generally utilize the fair values assigned to the underlying respective portfolio investments by the management of the venture capital funds. the estimated fair value of the investments is determined after giving consideration to the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategy, and other pertinent information. the general partner of svb strategic investors fund, lp, svb strategic investors, llc, is owned and controlled by bancshares and has an ownership interest of 11.1%. the general partner of svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, svb strategic investors ii, llc, is owned and controlled by bancshares and has an ownership interest of 14.4%. the limited partners of these funds do not have substantive participating rights. therefore, sif i and ii are consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the venture capital fund investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. the other limited partners share of any gains or losses is reflected in minority interest in net gains (losses) of consolidated affiliates and adjusts bancshares consolidated net income to reflect its percentage ownership. investments held by partners for growth, lp and gold hill venture lending 03, lp are recorded at fair value using investment accounting rules. the investments consist principally of loans and stock in private companies that are not traded on a public market and are subject to restrictions on resale. these investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by the general partner. the general partner of partners for growth, lp, partners for growth gp, llc, is not owned or controlled by bancshares. bancshares has an ownership interest of 53.2% in partners for growth, lp and therefore, the fund is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. the portion of any gains or losses belonging to the other limited partners is reflected in minority interest in net gains (losses) of consolidated affiliates and adjusts bancshares consolidated net income to its percentage ownership. bancshares has a 90.7% ownership interest in the general partner of gold hill venture lending 03, lp, gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc. bancshares and gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc have an ownership interest of 5.0% and 4.8%, respectively, in gold hill venture lending 03, lp. the limited partners of the fund have substantive participating rights, in that they have the ability to remove the general partner without cause. therefore, gold hill venture lending 03, lp is not consolidated and bancshares carries the investments in the fund at estimated fair value as determined by the general partner. changes in the estimated fair value of the investment are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. 94 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) loans loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income. unearned income reflects the net of both deferred loan origination and commitment fees and deferred loan origination costs. the net amount of unearned income is amortized into loan interest income over the contractual terms of the underlying loans and commitments using the interest method, adjusted for actual loan prepayment experience. allowance for loan and lease losses the allowance for loan and lease losses is established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense to provide for credit risk. the company allowance for loan and lease losses is established for loan losses that are probable but not yet realized. the process of anticipating loan losses is imprecise. the company applies the following evaluation process to its loan portfolio to estimate the required allowance for loan and lease losses: the company maintains a systematic process for the evaluation of individual loans and pools of loans for inherent risk of loan losses. on a quarterly basis, each loan in its portfolio is assigned a credit risk rating. credit risk-ratings are assigned on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 representing loans with a low risk of nonpayment, 9 representing loans with the highest risk of nonpayment, and 10 representing loans, which have been charged off. this credit risk-rating evaluation process includes, but is not limited to, consideration of such factors as payment status, the financial condition of the borrower, borrower compliance with loan covenants, underlying collateral values, potential loan concentrations, and general economic conditions. the company policies require a committee of senior management to review, at least quarterly, credit relationships that exceed specific dollar values. the company review process evaluates the appropriateness of the credit risk rating and allocation of allowance for loan and lease losses, as well as other account management functions. in addition, the company management receives and approves an analysis for all impaired loans, as defined by the sfas no. 114, accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan. the allowance for loan and lease losses is allocated based on a formula allocation for similarly risk-rated loans, or for specific risk issues, which suggest a probable loss factor exceeding the formula allocation for a specific loan or for individual impaired loans as determined by sfas no. 114. the company evaluation process is designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses. the company assesses the risk of losses inherent in the loan portfolio by utilizing modeling techniques. for this purpose the company has developed a statistical model based on historical loan loss migration to estimate an appropriate allowance for outstanding loan balances. in addition, the company applies a macro allocation to the results of the aforementioned model to ascertain the total allowance for loan and lease losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of the allowance for loan and lease losses relies, to a great extent, on the judgment and experience of the company management. allowance for loan loss contingency the company reserves for the possibility of an unfunded loan commitment being funded and subsequently being charged off. each quarter, every client unfunded credit obligation is allocated to a credit risk-rating category in accordance with the client credit risk rating. the company uses the historical loan loss factors described above to calculate the possible loan loss experience if unfunded credit commitments are funded by the company. separately the company uses historical trends to calculate a probability of an unfunded credit commitment being funded by the company. the company applies the 95 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) loan funding probability factor to risk factor adjusted unfunded commitments by credit risk rating to derive the reserve for unfunded loan commitments. the loan loss contingency reserve may also include certain macro allocations as deemed appropriate by the company management. nonaccrual loans sfas no. 114, accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan and sfas no. 118, accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan income recognition and disclosures require the company to measure impairment of a loan based upon the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan effective interest rate, except that as a practical expedient, the company may measure impairment based on the loan observable market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. a loan is considered impaired when, based upon currently known information, it is deemed probable that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the agreement. loans are placed on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days past due as to principal or interest payments (unless the principal and interest are well secured and in the process of collection); when the company has determined, based upon currently known information, that the timely collection of principal or interest is doubtful; or when the loans otherwise become impaired under the provisions of sfas no. 114. when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued interest is reversed against interest income and the loan is accounted for on the cash or cost recovery method thereafter until qualifying for return to accrual status. generally, a loan will be returned to accrual status when all delinquent principal and interest become current in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement and full collection of the principal and interest appears probable. premises and equipment premises and equipment are reported at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the terms of the related leases, whichever is shorter. the maximum estimated useful lives by asset classification are as follows: leasehold improvements 10 years furniture and equipment 3 years computer software 3 years computer hardware 3 years vehicles 3 years the company capitalizes the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use in accordance to statement of position no. 98-1, accounting for costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use. capitalized computer software costs consist of developed software, purchased software licenses and implementation costs. costs capitalized at december 31, 2004 and 2003, amounted to $4.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively. depreciation expense was $3.9 million, $3.2 million and $3.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. for property and equipment that is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting gain or loss is included in noninterest 96 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) expense in consolidated net income. the company had no capitalized lease obligations at december 31, 2004 and 2003. business combinations the company accounts for business combinations in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 141, business combinations, which requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. sfas no. 141 also specifies the criteria that intangible assets acquired in a purchase method business combination must meet to be recognized and reported apart from goodwill. goodwill goodwill, which arises from the purchase price exceeding the assigned value of the net assets of an acquired business, represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements being acquired. the value of goodwill is supported by the free cash flows from the acquired businesses. a decline in earnings as a result of a decline in mergers and acquisitions transaction volume or a decline in the valuations of mergers and acquisitions clients could lead to impairment, which would be recorded as a write-down in the company consolidated net income. on an annual basis or as circumstances dictate, the company management reviews goodwill and evaluates events or other developments that may indicate impairment in the carrying amount. the company conducts its reviews of goodwill in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142, which is based primarily on forecasted discounted cash flow analyses. the evaluation methodology for potential impairments is inherently complex and involves significant management judgment in the use of estimates and assumptions. the company evaluates impairment using a two-step process. first, the company compares the aggregate fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. if the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, no impairment exists. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the company compares the implied fair value, defined below, of the reporting unit goodwill with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, then goodwill impairment is recognized by writing goodwill down to the implied fair value. the company primarily uses a discounted future cash flows approach to value the reporting unit being evaluated for goodwill impairment. these estimates involve many assumptions, including expected results of operations, assumed discounts rates, and assumed growth rates for the reporting units. the discount rate used is based on standard industry practice, taking into account the expected equity risk premium, the size of the business, and the probability of the reporting unit achieving its financial forecasts. the implied fair value is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the unit was the purchase price. events that may indicate goodwill impairment include significant or adverse changes in results of operations of the business, economic or political climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, and a more likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. 97 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) fee-based services revenue recognition investment banking income revenues earned on mergers and acquisitions advisory services are recognized when svb alliant has fully completed its contractual and regulatory obligations related to its client service engagements. client investment income revenues related to client investment management fees are recognized as earned. income from warrants unexercised warrant equity instruments in private companies are initially recorded at a nominal value on the company consolidated balance sheets. they are carried at this value until they become marketable or expire. gains on warrant equity instruments that result from a portfolio company acquisition by a publicly traded company are marked to market when the acquisition occurs. the resulting gains are recognized into consolidated net income on that date, in accordance with emerging issues task force (eitf), issue no. 91-5, nonmonetary exchange of cost-method investments. unrealized gains on warrant equity instruments are recorded upon the establishment of a readily determinable fair value of the underlying security, as defined by sfas no.115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity instruments, and are excluded from consolidated net income and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. further fluctuations in the market value of these marketable equity instruments, prior to eventual sale, are also excluded from consolidated net income and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. gains or losses on warrant equity instruments are recorded in the company consolidated net income in the period the underlying securities are sold to a third party. reimbursement of out of pocket expenses the company receives reimbursement of out of pocket expenses related to lending and other products offered. the reimbursements of these expenses are included in noninterest income. income taxes the company files a consolidated federal income tax return, and consolidated, combined, or separate state income tax returns as appropriate. the company federal and state income tax provisions are based upon taxes payable for the current year as well as current year changes in deferred taxes related to temporary differences between the tax basis and financial statement balances of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements at currently enacted income tax rates applicable to the period in which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized. as changes in tax laws or rates are enacted, deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted through the provision for income taxes. 98 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) stock-based compensation the company has elected to follow accounting principles board opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees (apb no. 25), and related interpretations, to account for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed by sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation, as amended by sfas no. 148, accounting for stock-based compensation transition and disclosure. apb no. 25 provides that the compensation expense relative to the company employee stock options be measured based on the intrinsic value of the stock option. sfas no. 123 as amended by sfas no. 148 requires those companies that continue to follow apb no. 25 to provide pro forma disclosure of the impact of applying the fair value method of sfas no. 123. the company accounts for stock issued to non-employees in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 123 and financial accounting standards board (fasb) interpretation no. 44, accounting for certain transactions involving stock compensation. the company accounts for the cost of restricted stock and restricted stock units by amortizing the grant date fair value of such grants over their vesting period. if compensation cost related to both the company stock option awards to employees and directors and to the espp had been determined under the fair value method prescribed under sfas no. 123, the company net income, basic earnings per share, and diluted earnings per share would have been the pro forma amounts shown below for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002: years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) net income as reported $ 65,376 $ 11,977 $ 53,358 less: total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method, net of tax (15,860 ) (18,771 ) (16,878 ) pro forma net income $ 49,516 $ (6,794 ) $ 36,480 earnings per common share basic: as reported $ 1.86 $ 0.33 $ 1.21 pro forma $ 1.41 $ (0.19 ) $ 0.83 earnings per common share diluted: as reported $ 1.74 $ 0.32 $ 1.18 pro forma $ 1.35 $ (0.19 ) $ 0.84 employee benefit plans for restricted stock, unearned compensation equivalent to the market value of the company common stock on the date of grant is charged to stockholder equity and amortized into noninterest expense over the vesting term. compensation expense related to the espp, used in determining the pro forma net income and basic and diluted earnings per share amounts, was equal to the difference between the fair value of the company common stock when issued under the espp and the actual price paid by employees to acquire the common stock. 99 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) earnings per share the company calculates earnings (loss) per common share in accordance to statement of financial accounting standard no. 128, earnings per share (sfas 128). sfas 128 requires the presentation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for companies with potential common shares, such as warrants and options. accordingly, basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted average number of common stock shares outstanding during the period. diluted earnings (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted average number of common stock shares and potential common shares outstanding during the period. potential common shares consist of contingently convertible debt (using the treasury stock method), and stock options. common stock equivalent shares are excluded from the computation if the effect is antidilutive. segment reporting the company is organized into four lines of banking and financial services for management reporting: commercial banking, svb capital, svb alliant, and private client services and other. these operating segments are strategic units that offer different services to different clients. they are managed separately because each segment appeals to different markets and, accordingly, requires different strategies. the results of operating segments are based on the company internal profitability reporting process (see note 24 segment reporting). foreign exchange contracts the company enters into foreign exchange contracts with clients involved in international trade finance activities. the company also enters into an opposite-way foreign exchange contract with a correspondent bank, which completely mitigates the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, for each of the contracts entered into with its clients. however, settlement, credit, and operational risks remain. these contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and are recorded at fair value in the company consolidated balance sheets. changes in the fair value of these contracts are recognized immediately in noninterest income. derivative financial instruments the company accounts for derivative instruments in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 149, amendment of statement 133 on derivative instruments and hedging activities. sfas no. 149 amended and provided clarification on the accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. sfas no. 149 was to be applied prospectively and was effective for contracts entered into or modified after june 30, 2003. this statement was applicable to existing contracts and new contracts entered into after june 30, 2003, if those contracts relate to forward purchases or sales of when-issued securities or other securities that do not yet exist. the adoption of sfas no. 149 has had no material impact on the company results of operations or financial condition. sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended by sfas no. 138, accounting for certain derivative instruments and certain hedging activities, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, and requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. additionally, the accounting for changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative instrument is designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship 100 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity. changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of a particular hedge, must be recognized currently in earnings. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument and the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings in the current period, unless the derivative instrument meets the qualification for the short-cut treatment, as defined by sfas no. 133 (see note 15 derivative financial instruments). for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, or for foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument are recognized in other comprehensive income (oci). these amounts are reclassified from oci and recognized in earnings when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur. the company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity the company accounts for financial instruments with characteristics of both liability and equity according to the provisions of sfas no. 150, accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. sfas no. 150, issued by the fasb in may 2003, established standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. it requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within the statement scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). many of those instruments were previously classified as equity or between the liabilities and equity sections of the statement of financial position. sfas no. 150 requires financial instruments issued in the form of shares that are mandatorily redeemable (or embody an unconditional obligation requiring the issuer to redeem them by transferring their assets at a specified or determinable date or upon an event that is certain to occur) to be classified as liabilities. the statement was effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after may 31, 2003, and was effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after june 15, 2003. it was implemented by reporting the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for financial instruments created before the issuance date of the statement and still existing at the beginning of the interim period of adoption. restatement was not permitted. the company $40.0 million of company mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated debentures, or 8.25% trust preferred securities, were redeemed on december 1, 2003. beginning july 1, 2003, under sfas no. 150, the 8.25% trust preferred securities were classified under the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet and 8.25% trust preferred securities distribution expense was classified under interest expense on the consolidated statements of income. prior to adoption of sfas no. 150, these securities were classified between the liability and equity sections of the company consolidated balance sheets, and their related expense was classified as noninterest expense on the company consolidated statements of income, under the heading trust preferred securities distributions. 101 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) recent accounting pronouncements in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment which is a revision of sfas no. 123 and supersedes apb no. 25. sfas no. 123(r) requires the company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments using a fair value method, and record such expense in its consolidated financial statements for interim or annual reporting periods beginning after june 15, 2005. in addition, the adoption of sfas no. 123(r) will require additional accounting related to the income tax effects and additional disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from share-based payment arrangements. the adoption of sfas no. 123(r) will have a material impact on the company consolidated results of operations, financial position, and statement of cash flows as such expense will now be reported in the company consolidated financial statements rather than on a pro forma basis. however, the company expects that the pro forma expense calculated under sfas no. 123 (above) does approximate the expense that will be recognized under sfas no. 123(r). 3. business combinations on october 1, 2002, the company acquired substantially all of the assets of woodside asset management, inc., an investment advisor firm, which had approximately $200 million of client financial assets under management for 70 clients. the company expected woodside asset management, inc. to enable it to expand its product offerings in the private banking. additionally, as part of this acquisition, silicon valley bancshares obtained the general partner interests in two limited partnerships, taurus growth partners, lp, and libra partners, lp. the company has less than a 1% ownership interest in each of these funds. the remaining ownership interest represents limited partners funds invested on their behalf by the general partner in certain fixed income and marketable equity securities. however, due to the company ability to control the investing activities of these limited partnerships, the company has consolidated the related results of operations and financial condition into its consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. the limited partners did not hold substantive participating rights. the financial assets of the taurus and libra funds were liquidated and distributed to their respective limited partners prior to december 31, 2004. 102 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) 4. earnings per share the following is a reconciliation of basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002: net income weighted average shares per share amount (dollar and shares in thousands, except per share amounts) year ended december 31, 2004: income available to common stockholders basic $ 65,376 35,215 $ 1.86 effect of dilutive securities: stock options, restricted stock and convertible debt 2,380 income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions diluted $ 65,376 37,595 $ 1.74 year ended december 31, 2003: income available to common stockholders basic $ 11,977 36,109 $ 0.33 effect of dilutive securities: stock options and restricted stock 1,212 income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions diluted $ 11,977 37,321 $ 0.32 year ended december 31, 2002: income available to common stockholders basic $ 53,358 44,000 $ 1.21 effect of dilutive securities: stock options and restricted stock 1,080 income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions diluted $ 53,358 45,080 $ 1.18 5. restrictions on cash balances the bank is required to maintain reserves against customer deposits by keeping balances with the federal reserve bank of san francisco in a noninterest-bearing cash account. the minimum required reserve amounts were $11.4 million and $3.8 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the average required reserve balance totaled $13.9 million in 2004 and $7.6 million in 2003. 6. securities purchased under agreement to resell securities purchased under agreement to resell at december 31, 2004 consisted of u.s. treasury securities, u.s. agency securities, private label mortgage-backed securities, which are rated a or better, and commercial paper rated not less than a1, p1 or f1. securities purchased under agreement to resell totaled $150.4 million and $540.6 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and averaged $395.3 million and $355.3 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. the maximum amount outstanding at any month-end during 2004 and 2003 was $698.2 million and $548.3 million, respectively. 103 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) 7. investment securities the following tables detail the major components of the company investment securities portfolio at december 31, 2004 and 2003. december 31, 2004 amortized cost unrealized gains unrealized losses carrying value (dollars in thousands) available-for-sale securities: u.s. treasury securities $ 30,013 $ $ (247 ) $ 29,766 u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 814,571 3,133 (3,785 ) 813,919 mortgage-backed securities 592,282 4,372 (2,212 ) 594,442 discount notes and bonds 280,611 200 (2,480 ) 278,331 asset-backed securities 101,691 32 (727 ) 100,996 obligations of states and political subdivisions 93,734 4,303 98,037 commercial paper and other debt securities 92,723 (150 ) 92,573 money market mutual funds 98,548 98,548 warrant securities 122 5,550 5,672 total available-for-sale securities 2,104,295 17,590 (9,601 ) 2,112,284 marketable securities (investment company accounting)(2) 480 non-marketable securities (investment company accounting): venture capital fund investments(3) 52,547 other private equity investments(4) 15,720 other investments(5) 13,635 non-marketable securities (cost basis accounting): venture capital fund investments 25,400 tax credit funds 14,070 federal home loan bank stock(6) 12,798 federal reserve bank stock(6) 7,967 other private equity investments 3,306 total investment securities $ 2,258,207 104 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2003 amortized cost unrealized gains unrealized losses carrying value (dollars in thousands) available-for-sale securities: u.s. treasury securities $ 31,033 $ 120 $ $ 31,153 u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 612,210 3,942 (4,767 ) 611,385 mortgage-backed securities 294,156 4,312 (1,974 ) 296,494 discount notes and bonds 285,158 999 (728 ) 285,429 asset-backed securities 37,501 220 (26 ) 37,695 obligations of states and political subdivisions 143,185 7,686 150,871 commercial paper and other debt securities 27,778 13 (800 ) 26,991 money market mutual funds 23,079 23,079 warrant securities 165 7,511 7,676 venture capital fund investments 8 8 other equity investments(1) 8,004 598 8,602 total available-for-sale securities $ 1,462,277 $ 25,401 $ (8,295 ) 1,479,383 non-marketable securities (investment company accounting): venture capital fund investments(3) 30,149 other private equity investments(4) 10,097 other investments(5) non-marketable securities (cost basis accounting): venture capital fund investments 25,196 tax credit funds 16,551 federal home loan bank stock(6) 3,009 federal reserve bank stock(6) 7,467 other private equity investments 3,582 total investment securities $ 1,575,434 (1) available-for-sale other private equity investments included $0 million and $8.6 million related to investments owned by two consolidated limited partnerships, taurus growth partners, lp and libra partners, lp as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the taurus growth partners, lp and libra partners, lp funds were liquidated and the funds were fully distributed in december 2004. the company had a controlling ownership interest of less than 1% in the funds. (2) marketable equity securities (investment company accounting) included $0.5 million related to silicon valley bancventures, lp, at december 31, 2004. the company has a controlling interest of 10.7% in the fund. excluding the minority interest-owned portion of silicon valley bancventures, lp, the company has marketable equity securities (investment company accounting) of $0.1 million as of december 31, 2004. (3) non-marketable venture capital fund investments (investment company accounting) included $45.3 million and $30.1 million related to the company fund of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp, as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the company has a controlling ownership interest of 11.1% in the fund. it also included $7.3 million and $0.0 million to svb strategic investors fund ii, lp at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. excluding the minority interest owned portion of these funds, the company has non-marketable venture capital fund investments (investment company accounting) of $6.1 million and $3.3 million as of december 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. (4) non-marketable other private equity investments (investment company accounting) included $15.7 million and $10.1 million related to the company venture capital fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp, as of december 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. the company has a controlling ownership interest of 10.7% in the fund. excluding the minority interest-owned portion of silicon valley bancventures, lp, the company has non-marketable other private equity investments (investment company accounting) of $1.7 million and $1.1 million as of december 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. (5) non-marketable other investments (investment company accounting) included $9.0 million related to partners for growth, lp, at december 31, 2004. the company has a majority ownership interest of 53.2% in the fund. it also included $2.4 million and $2.3 million related to gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc and gold hill venture lending 03, lp, respectively, as of december 31, 2004. the company has a majority interest of 90.7% in gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc excluding the minority interest-owned portion of partners for growth, lp and gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc, the company has non-marketable other investments (investment company accounting) of $9.2 million as of december 31, 2004. (6) federal home loan bank ( fhlb ) and federal reserve bank ( frb ) stock are restricted, as we are required to hold shares of fhlb and frb stock under the bank borrowing agreement. 105 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table breaks out the company unrealized losses on its investment securities portfolio into less than 12 months or 12 months or longer as of december 31, 2004: december 31, 2004 less than twelve months twelve months or longer total fair value unrealized losses fair value(1) unrealized losses(1) fair value unrealized losses (dollars in thousands) u.s. treasury securities $ 29,766 $ (247 ) $ $ $ 29,766 $ (247 ) u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 392,633 (3,037 ) 21,628 (748 ) 414,261 (3,785 ) mortgage-backed securities 115,115 (570 ) 69,537 (1,642 ) 184,652 (2,212 ) discount notes and bonds 213,251 (2,480 ) 213,251 (2,480 ) asset-backed securities 91,027 (727 ) 91,027 (727 ) commercial paper and other debt securities 9,850 (150 ) 9,850 (150 ) total temporarily impaired securities $ 841,792 $ (7,061 ) $ 101,015 $ (2,540 ) $ 942,807 $ (9,601 ) (1) as of december 31, 2004, the company identified ten investments totaling $101.0 million that had unrealized losses of $(2.5) million for a period of greater than twelve months. of the ten investments, $69.5 million related to six securities classified as mortgaged-backed securities. these securities were originally purchased as early as june 2003 and had unrealized losses of approximately $(1.6) million in 2004. since the unrealized losses were due solely to market interest rate movements, the securities were deemed to be temporarily impaired. there were investments of $21.6 million, which related to two securities classified as collateralized mortgage obligation. they were originally purchased as early as june 2002, and had unrealized losses of approximately $(0.7) million in 2004, also due solely to market interest rate movements, so they too were deemed to be temporarily impaired. the two remaining securities totaled $9.9 million and had unrealized losses of $(0.2) million in 2004. these are auction rate preferred securities and are classified as commercial paper and other debt securities. the unrealized losses were the result of a credit downgrade from a1 to baa2, effective june 25, 2002. the securities continue to be investment grade and the company has deemed the impairment as temporary. market valuations and impairment analysis on assets in the investment portfolio are reviewed and monitored on an ongoing basis. 106 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) the following tables present the carrying value of the company non-marketable venture capital and other private equity investments at and for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003: consolidated as of december 31, 2004 venture capital funds other private equity (dollars in thousands) wholly owned fund investments funds of funds wholly owned equity investments co-investment fund venture debt funds total commitments by investors to consolidated funds $ $ 225,800 $ $ 56,100 $ 47,000 $ 328,900 commitments to investments 61,003 165,925 16,008 24,945 37,431 305,312 commitments funded 45,109 71,170 16,008 24,945 15,830 173,062 inception to date distributions 50,733 6,007 9,212 5,009 70,961 current cost of investments: marketable 514 7 521 non-marketable 25,400 67,455 1,834 19,164 15,854 129,707 total current cost of investments 25,400 67,455 1,834 19,678 15,861 130,228 carrying value: marketable 473 7 480 non-marketable 25,400 52,547 1,834 15,720 13,635 109,136 total carrying value of investments 25,401 52,547 1,834 16,193 13,642 109,616 year-to-date net investment (losses) gains (1,690 ) 1,906 556 2,186 (125 ) 2,833 the company ownership interest as of december 31, 2004 venture capital funds other private equity (dollars in thousands) wholly owned fund investments managed fund of funds wholly owned equity investments managed venture capital fund venture debt funds total commitments to investments $ 61,003 $ 28,500 $ 16,008 $ 6,000 $ 45,000 $ 156,511 current cost of investments 25,400 7,728 1,834 2,105 10,468 47,535 carrying value 25,401 6,067 1,834 1,732 9,220 44,254 year-to-date net investment (losses) gains (1,690 ) 185 556 267 (119 ) (801 ) 107 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) consolidated as of december 31, 2003 venture capital funds other private equity (dollars in thousands) wholly owned fund investments fund of funds wholly owned equity investments co-investment fund total commitments by investors to consolidated funds $ $ 121,800 $ $ 56,100 $ 177,900 commitments to investments 72,004 101,763 15,668 17,921 207,356 commitments funded 40,321 46,083 15,668 17,921 119,993 inception to date distributions 47,982 1,819 6,568 1,895 58,264 current cost of investments: marketable 8 8 non-marketable 25,054 44,257 3,583 15,262 88,156 total cost of investments: 25,062 44,257 3,583 15,262 88,164 carrying value: marketable 8 8 non-marketable 25,196 30,149 3,583 10,096 69,024 total carrying value of investments: 25,204 30,149 3,583 10,096 69,032 year-to-date net investment (losses) gains (2,648 ) (4,425 ) 586 (1,739 ) (8,226 ) the company ownership interest as of december 31, 2003 venture capital funds other private equity (dollars in thousands) wholly owned fund investments managed fund of funds wholly owned equity investments managed venture capital fund total commitments to investments $ 72,004 $ 13,500 $ 15,668 $ 6,000 $ 107,172 current cost of investments 40,321 5,400 15,668 2,520 63,909 carrying value 25,196 3,342 3,583 1,080 33,201 year-to-date net investment (losses) gains (2,648 ) (490 ) 586 (186 ) (2,738 ) the following table provides the remaining contractual principal maturities and fully taxable-equivalent yields on investment securities as of december 31, 2004, except for auction rate securities that use the next reset date as the maturity date. the weighted-average yield is computed using the amortized cost of available-for-sale securities, which are reported at fair value. expected remaining maturities of callable u.s. agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, and collateralized mortgage obligations may differ significantly from their contractual maturities because borrowers have the right to prepay obligations with or without penalties. this is most apparent in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations as contractual maturities are typically 15 to 30 years whereas, expected average lives of these securities are significantly shorter and vary based upon structure. warrant securities, venture capital fund investments, other private equity investments, federal reserve bank stock, federal home loan bank stock, and tax credit funds are included in the table below as maturing after 10 years. 108 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) investment securities remaining contractual principal maturities table: december 31, 2004 total one year or less after one year to five years after five years to ten years after ten years carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield (dollars in thousands) u.s. treasury securities $ 29,766 2.76 % $ 19,860 2.66 % $ 9,906 2.97 % $ % $ % u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 813,919 4.54 619 6.33 813,300 4.54 mortgage-backed securities 594,442 4.89 1,009 5.70 593,433 4.89 discount notes and bonds 278,331 3.90 9,962 2.93 208,194 3.71 60,175 4.70 asset-backed securities 100,996 3.13 49,691 3.07 51,305 3.18 obligations of states and political subdivisions 98,037 4.25 11,669 3.31 77,016 4.24 9,352 5.60 commercial paper and other debt securities 92,573 2.08 92,573 2.08 money market mutual funds 98,548 1.84 98,548 1.84 federal reserve bank stock, federal home loan bank stock, and tax credit funds 34,835 34,835 warrant securities 5,672 5,672 marketable securities 480 480 venture capital fund investments 77,947 77,947 other private equity investments 19,026 19,026 other investments. 13,635 13,635 total $ 2,258,207 4.20 % $ 232,612 2.13 % $ 346,435 3.73 % $ 120,832 4.13 % $ 1,558,328 4.69 % 109 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) investment securities with a fair value of $123.0 million and $122.6 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were pledged to secure certain public deposits and a line of credit at the federal reserve bank of san francisco discount window. for further information, see note 12. borrowings. the cost of investment securities is determined on a specific identification basis. the following table presents the components of gains and losses on investment securities, excluding warrant gains, for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002. years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) gross gains on investment securities: available-for-sale securities, at fair value $ 2,738 $ (147 ) $ marketable securities (investment company accounting) non-marketable securities (investment company accounting): venture capital fund investments 5,568 1,541 44 other private equity investments 3,163 2,324 581 other investments 7 12 non-marketable securities (cost basis accounting) : venture capital fund investments 1,282 154 275 other private equity investments 873 2,025 42 total gross gains on investment securities 13,631 5,909 942 gross losses on investment securities: non-marketable securities (investment company accounting): venture capital fund investments (3,655 ) (5,966 ) (5,761 ) other private equity investments (977 ) (4,063 ) (1,315 ) other investments (48 ) (40 ) (40 ) non-marketable securities (cost basis accounting) : venture capital fund investments (3,063 ) (2,802 ) (1,526 ) other private equity investments (317 ) (1,440 ) (2,125 ) total gross losses on investment securities (8,060 ) (14,311 ) (10,767 ) net gains/(losses) on investment securities $ 5,571 $ (8,402 ) $ (9,825 ) warrant gains totaled $9.2 million, $7.5 million, and $1.7 million in for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. 110 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) 8. loans and allowance for loan and lease losses the detailed composition of loans, net of unearned income of $14.4 million and $12.3 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, is presented in the following table: december 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) core commercial $ 1,378,133 $ 1,340,745 asset-based lending 327,796 198,056 accounts receivable factoring 224,897 165,185 total commercial loans 1,930,826 1,703,986 vineyard development 80,960 50,118 commercial real estate 18,562 12,204 total real estate construction 99,522 62,322 real estate term consumer 27,124 19,213 real estate term commercial 16,720 12,902 total real estate term 43,844 32,115 consumer and other 237,951 190,806 total loans, net of unearned income $ 2,312,143 $ 1,989,229 the company loan classifications for financial reporting purposes differ from those for regulatory reporting purposes. loans are classified for financial reporting purposes based upon the purpose and primary source of repayment of the loans. loans are classified for regulatory reporting purposes based upon the type of collateral securing the loans. a substantial percentage of the company loans are commercial in nature, and such loans are generally made to emerging-growth or corporate technology companies in a variety of industries. as of december 31, 2004, the company software tools and applications industry subsector represented 16.1% of total gross loans, the premium wine industry sector represented 14.2% of total gross loans, the venture capital industry subsector represented 13.2% of total gross loans, and the private client services sector represented 11.2% of total gross loans. no other industry sector represented more than 10.0% of total gross loans at december 31, 2004. the activity in the allowance for loan and lease losses for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, is summarized below: years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) balance at beginning of year $ 49,862 $ 58,366 $ 56,903 provision for loan losses (9,901 ) (8,727 ) 7,220 loans charged off (16,584 ) (20,140 ) (27,932 ) recoveries 14,236 20,363 22,175 balance at end of year $ 37,613 $ 49,862 $ 58,366 the aggregate recorded investment in loans for which impairment has been determined in accordance with sfas no. 114 totaled $14.3 million and $12.4 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, nonaccrual loans represented all impaired loans. 111 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) allocations of the allowance for loan and lease losses related to impaired loans totaled $4.2 million and $3.1 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. average impaired loans for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, totaled $15.0 million, $15.6 million, and $19.6 million, respectively. if these loans had not been impaired, $1.1 million, $1.0 million, and $1.3 million in interest income would have been realized during the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the company realized no interest income on such impaired loans for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. 9. premises and equipment premises and equipment at december 31, 2004 and 2003, consist of the following: december 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) cost: computer software $ 19,581 $ 15,162 leasehold improvements 18,145 17,716 computer hardware 10,174 7,807 furniture and equipment 5,172 3,966 total cost 53,072 44,651 accumulated depreciation and amortization (38,121 ) (29,652 ) premises and equipment-net $ 14,951 $ 14,999 10. goodwill goodwill totaled $35.6 million and $37.5 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. all of the company goodwill at december 31, 2004, pertained to the acquisition of svb alliant (alliant partners). svb alliant during the second quarter of 2004, the company conducted its annual impairment review of svb alliant (formerly alliant partners) in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142, based primarily on forecasted discounted cash flow analyses. the company also conducted an impairment review during the fourth quarter in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142. in both instances, the valuation analysis of svb alliant indicated no further impairment beyond that already identified and recorded. during the second quarter of 2003, the company conducted its annual impairment review of svb alliant, which elicited an indication of possible impairment. despite an increase in revenues during the second quarter of 2003 compared to the first quarter of 2003, svb alliant failed to achieve the revenues projected by the financial model used to value svb alliant in connection with its original acquisition by the company. in response to these indications, the company engaged an internationally reputable business consulting firm to assist the company in a valuation of svb alliant, in compliance with the requirements of sfas no. 142. based on this valuation, the company recorded an impairment charge of $17.0 million during the second quarter of 2003. during the fourth quarter of 2003, it became apparent that the operating results of svb alliant during the second half of 2003 were substantially below the performance forecasted in connection with the second quarter analysis, primarily due to decreased fees associated with weak initial public offering (ipo) and mergers and acquisitions environments. the company engaged the same business-consulting firm that 112 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) assisted it with its annual impairment review during the second quarter of 2003 to assist it in conducting a valuation of svb alliant, in compliance with the requirements of sfas no. 142. based on this valuation, the company recorded an impairment charge of $46.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2003. the total impairment charge for 2003 was $63.0 million. woodside asset management, inc. during the third quarter of 2004, the company conducted its annual impairment review of woodside asset management, inc., which indicated possible impairment. based primarily on an internal analysis of forecasted discounted cash flows, the company recorded an impairment charge for the entire goodwill amount of $1.9 million during the third quarter of 2004. woodside asset management, inc. failed to achieve or exceed the projected operating results used as the basis of its valuation in connection with its original acquisition by the company. 11. deposits the aggregate amount of time deposit accounts individually exceeding $100,000 totaled $286.7 million and $333.6 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. interest expense paid on time deposits individually exceeding $100,000 totaled $1.7 million, $3.2 million, and $6.7 million for years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. at december 31, 2004, time deposit accounts, individually exceeding $100,000 totaling $281.8 million were scheduled to mature within one year. 12. borrowings the following table represents outstanding borrowings at december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002: years ended december 31, maturity 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) 0% short-term borrowings(1) september 28, 2003 $ $ $ 9,127 0% short-term borrowings(1) september 28, 2004 9,124 0% short-term borrowings(1) september 28, 2005 9,120 revolving line of credit partners for growth due on demand 700 0% long-term note payable(1) september 28, 2004 8,844 0% long-term note payable(1) september 28, 2005 8,837 8,553 total other borrowings $ 9,820 $ 17,961 $ 26,524 contingently convertible debt june 15, 2008 146,740 145,797 junior subordinated debentures october 30, 2033 49,421 49,652 (1) relates to the acquisition of svb alliant (alliant partners) in 2001 and were payable to the former owners, who have been employed by the company. these notes were discounted over their respective terms, based on market interest rates as of september 28, 2001. interest expense related to borrowings was $3.0 million, $4.4 million, and $1.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. weighted average interest rate associated to the company short-term borrowings outstanding for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 was 1.4%, 3.1%, and 2.9%, respectively. see note 3 business combinations and note 19 related parties. on may 20, 2003, the company issued $150.0 million of zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes at face value, due june 15, 2008, to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to rule 144a under the 113 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) securities act and outside the united states to non-us persons pursuant to regulation under the securities act. the notes are convertible into the company common stock at a conversion price of $33.6277 per share and are subordinated to all present and future senior debt of the company. holders of the notes may convert their notes only if: (i) the price of the company common stock issuable upon conversion of a note reaches a specified threshold, (ii) specified corporate transactions occur, or (iii) the trading price for the notes falls below certain thresholds. at the initial conversion price, each $1,000 principal amount of notes will be convertible into approximately 29.7374 shares of the company common stock. this represents 4,460,410 shares of the company common stock. on august 14, 2003, the company filed a shelf registration statement with the securities and exchange commission, with respect to the resale of the notes and the common stock issuable upon the conversion of the notes. the fair value of the convertible subordinated notes at december 31, 2004, was $205.9 million, based on quoted market prices. the company intends to settle the principal amount of $150.0 million (accreted value) in cash. the notes were convertible during the year ended december 31, 2004, due to the share price of $37.17 on september 30, 2004, exceeding their conversion price. the company is unaware of any note holders exercising their conversion option. the potential dilutive effect of this contingently convertible debt using the treasury stock method was 425,096 shares as of december 31, 2004, and was included in the calculation of earnings per share for the year ended december 31, 2004, in accordance with the decreased eps by $0.17 per diluted common share, or 10 percent for 2004. concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes, the company entered into a convertible note hedge at a cost of $39.3 million and a warrant transaction providing proceeds of $17.4 million with respect to its common stock, with the objective of decreasing its exposure to potential dilution from conversion of the notes. the terms and conditions of the convertible note hedge are disclosed in note 15. derivative financial instruments. the cost of the convertible note hedge and the proceeds of the warrant transaction were included in stockholders equity in accordance with the guidance in eitf no. 00-19, accounting for derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock. under the warrant agreement, the counterparty may purchase up to approximately 4,460,410 shares of the company common stock at $51.34 per share, upon the occurrence of conversion events defined above. the warrant transaction will expire on june 15, 2008. 7.0% junior subordinated debentures on october 30, 2003, the company issued $51.5 million in 7.0% junior subordinated debentures to a special-purpose trust, svb capital ii. distributions to svb capital ii are cumulative and are payable quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.0% per annum of the face value of the junior subordinated debentures. the junior subordinated debentures are mandatorily redeemable upon the maturity of the debentures on october 15, 2033, or to the extent that the company redeems any debentures earlier. the company may redeem the debentures prior to maturity in whole or in part, at its option, at any time on or after october 30, 2008. in addition, the company may redeem the debentures, in whole but not in part, prior to october 30, 2008, upon the occurrence of certain events. issuance costs of $2.2 million related to the junior subordinated debentures were deferred and are being amortized over the period until mandatory redemption of the debentures in october 2033 (see note 15. derivative financial instruments). the fair value of the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures is included in note 21. fair value of financial instruments. the company has guaranteed the trust preferred securities issued by svb capital ii (see note 14. commitments and contingencies). 114 silicon valley bancshares and subsidiaries notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued) available lines of credit. the company currently has available federal funds for $304.0 million, all of which are unused at december 31, 2004. 13. trust preferred securities 8.25% fixed rate trust preferred securities in may 1998, the company issued $40.0 million in cumulative trust preferred securities through a newly formed special-purpose trust, svb capital i. at the time of redemption, the remaining unamortized issuance costs of $1.3 million related to the trust preferred securities were expensed . the company completed the early redemption of the 8.25% trust preferred securities december 1, 2003. the trust was a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary of the company, and its sole assets were the junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures. distributions were cumulative and were payable quarterly at a rate of 8.25% per annum of the stated liquidation amount of $25 per preferred security. the obligations of the trust were fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by the company. on june 3, 2002, the company entered into an interest rate swap, which hedged against the risk of changes in fair values associated with the company $40.0 million, 8.25% fixed rate, trust preferred securities. this agreement provided income of $1.0 million and $1.1 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. the swap was terminated on june 23, 2003. for further information, seequantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and supplementary data as presented in item 8 of this amended annual report on form 10-k/a. certain reclassifications have been made to our prior years results to conform to 2004 presentations. such reclassifications had no effect on our results of operations or stockholders equity . all applicable disclosures in the following discussion in this item 7 have been modified to reflect the restatement as described below. all of the numbers impacted by the restatement in this section are as restated. restatement of financial statements we have restated certain prior year amounts reported in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2004, originally filed with the securities and exchange commission on march 16, 2005, for purposes of correcting misapplications of generally accepted accounting principles in the u.s. (gaap). the cumulative adjustments increased our opening retained earnings by $11.7 million at january 1, 2002. our net income for 2003, 2002 and 2001 increased by $1.1 million, $1.1 million and $9.8 million, respectively, and decreased in 2004 by $1.5 million. the primary restatement adjustments recorded due to the misapplications of gaap are described below. derivative equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions were not reported as derivatives in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended (sfas no. 133). derivative equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions were not reported as derivatives in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 133. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to our interest income, provision for loan and lease losses, noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. the total impact, including all adjustments, increased (decreased) income before income tax expense by $(1.2) million, $6.1 million, $5.0 million and $3.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 19 as described in item 1 of part i, business commercial banking, we often obtain derivative equity warrant assets to purchase an interest in a client company stock in connection with providing credit facilities and, less frequently, for providing other services. in general, the derivative equity warrant assets that we hold entitle us to buy a specific number of shares of stock, at a specific price over a specific time period. certain warrants obtained by us include contingent provisions which set the underlying number of shares or strike price based upon certain future events. for example, the number of shares exercisable for some warrants is contingent upon the related lending facility, such as the extent of utilization of the facility, including draw frequency or amount. or, in some cases, the underlying strike price of some warrants may be contingent upon the share price of a subsequent future round of equity financing of the issuer. previously, we recorded these equity warrant assets on our balance sheet at a nominal value until the date they became marketable, the date of expiration, or the date the issuer was acquired or completed an initial public offering. however, we determined that our accounting treatment of equity warrant assets in our private and public client companies should conform to a 2001 interpretation of sfas no. 133, as amended. in april 2001, the fasb issued statement 133 derivative implementation group issue no. a17, contracts that provide for net share settlement, as revised (dig a17), which was effective with the first financial quarter after the cleared guidance was posted to the fasb website and remains effective for all subsequent periods. as a result, our accounting for equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions has been revised beginning as of the third quarter of 2001. the net share settlement provision contained in each of our warrant agreements allow us to realize value without a capital investment. under such a provision, the client company delivers to us, upon our exercise of the warrant, the amount of shares with a current fair value equal to the net gain of the warrant agreement (sometimes described as a cashless exercise). because our warrant agreements contain such net share settlement provisions, our equity warrant assets are required to be accounted for as derivative instruments under sfas no. 133, as amended. under the revised accounting treatment, equity warrant assets in our private and public client companies, which include net share settlement provisions are recorded at fair value and are classified as derivative assets, a component of other assets on our balance sheet at the time they are obtained. the grant date fair values of these equity warrant assets are deemed to be loan fees and, as such, are required to be recognized as an adjustment of loan yield through interest income, as prescribed by sfas no. 91, accounting for nonrefundable fees and costs associated with originating or acquiring loans and initial direct costs of leases (sfas no. 91). similar to other loan fees, the yield adjustment related to the grant date fair value of equity warrant assets, received directly in connection with the issuance of a credit facility, is recognized over the life of the related credit facility in interest income. any changes in value of the warrant derivative assets subsequent to the grant date fair value are recognized in gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net, in our consolidated statements of income. if the warrant is in the money, we exercise these equity warrants for shares when a portfolio company completes an initial public offering on a publicly reported market or is acquired by a publicly traded company. on the date a warrant is exercised and exchanged for equity securities, it is marked to market as a derivative asset with the resulting change in value recognized as gains (losses) on derivative instruments in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. as of the exercise date, the basis or value in the equity securities is reclassified from other assets to the investment securities line item on the balance sheet. the equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities under sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity instruments (sfas no. 115). in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 115, changes in fair value of securities designated as available for sale are excluded from net income and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income after applicable taxes, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. the initial implementation of the 2001 interpretation of sfas no. 133, as amended, caused us to recognize the fair value of the equity warrant assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2001. we recorded as unearned loan fees the estimated grant date fair value of the equity warrant assets that, as of july 1, 2001, would not yet have been amortized to interest income had this accounting policy been in place since the warrants were first received. the unearned loan fees recorded as of july 1, 2001 were amortized, as a loan yield adjustment, over the remaining life of the related credit facilities. in accordance with the implementation provisions of sfas no. 133, as amended, the fair value of the warrant portfolio, less the amount recorded as unearned loan fees at december 31, 2001 is reported as a restatement adjustment to the balance at december 31, 2001. refer to note 3. restatement of financial statements to the financial statements contained in this report. 20 the effect of the misapplication of gaap related to derivative warrant equity assets for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 is described below. as restated years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 2001 effects on statements of income: interest income (1) $ 5,656 $ 6,621 $ 9,228 $ 4,255 (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses (2) 104 108 75 82 gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net (3) 2,749 8,208 (2,670 ) 932 gains (losses) on investment securities, net (4) (535 ) (1,300 ) 30 (148 ) total impact on income statement 7,974 13,637 6,663 5,121 less: income previously recognized (5) (9,191 ) (7,528 ) (1,661 ) (1,995 ) net impact on pre-tax income statement (1,217 ) 6,109 5,002 3,126 effects on balance sheets: other assets (6) 28,928 29,537 23,465 22,500 unearned warrant fees (7) $ 5,351 $ 4,612 $ 6,360 8,543 retained earnings - cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (8) $ 6,714 (1) similar to other loan fees, amount represents the yield adjustment as prescribed by sfas no. 91 related to equity warrant assets received directly in connection with the issuance of a credit facility. (2) reversal of provision for loan and lease losses previously recorded due to the effect of reducing the net carrying amount of impaired loans resulting from the higher balances of unearned fees due to the recognition of the initial grant date fair value of the derivative assets net of related amortization. (3) recognition of changes in value of warrant derivative assets subsequent to the grant date fair value. (4) represents recognition of gains (losses) from the sale of shares associated with exercised equity warrant assets. upon exercise of an equity warrant asset, the fair value of the equity warrant asset plus the exercise price paid becomes the adjusted basis of the asset reclassified to investment securities. the investment security is then accounted for under sfas no. 115. (5) represents reversal of income previously recognized by the company in prior years under previous warrant income recognition methodology. (6) adjustment to recognize the fair value of equity warrant assets on the balance sheet in accordance with sfas no. 133. (7) represents the unearned loan fees to be amortized over the remaining life of the credit facility associated with the respective warrants. (8) in accordance with the implementation provisions of sfas no. 133, the fair value of the warrant portfolio less the amount recorded as unearned loan fees at july 1, 2001, is reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. initial non-refundable corporate finance fees were not reported in accordance with the provisions of staff accounting bulletin no. 104, revenue recognition (sab no. 104). initial non-refundable corporate finance fees were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sab no. 104. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company consolidated noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. the company is engaged by clients to provide merger and acquisition advisory services. the income from these engagements is typically comprised of an initial non-refundable fee due upon execution of the engagement letter and a contingent fee due upon a merger or acquisition event, if any. the engagement letters generally do not include a termination date. corporate finance fees on mergers and acquisitions advisory services, a component of noninterest income, have been restated to defer the recognition of the initial upfront non-refundable retainer until the completion of all contractual obligations pursuant to the terms of the engagement letters or upon receipt or notification of an engagement termination letter. therefore, the change in accounting resulted in a net increase (decrease) in corporate finance fees of $0.1 million, $(0.9) million, $(1.2) million and $(0.6) million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and a corresponding increase in deferred revenue for the same periods which has been or will be recognized in future periods. non-refundable loan fees and costs associated with our lending products and fees associated with letters of credit were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 91 accounting for non refundable fees and costs associated with originating or acquiring loans and initial direct costs of leases (sfas no. 91). 21 non-refundable loan fees and costs associated with our lending products and fees associated with letters of credit were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 91. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to our interest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. through our lending products and services, we extend loans and other credit facilities to our commercial clients, most often secured by the assets of our clients. we often obtain loan fees and incur capitalizable costs in relation to the extension of these credit facilities to our clients. net loan fee income, a component of interest income, has been restated to revise revenue recognition in accordance with the appropriate straight-line or interest method, as prescribed by sfas no. 91. in addition, the company inappropriately recognized non-refundable loan fees it receives for factoring loans immediately rather than deferring and amortizing fees over the term of the facility granted. in addition, we reclassified certain letters of credit fee income from loan interest income to noninterest income, as the probability of the commitment being exercised was deemed to be remote. the company did not properly defer direct loan origination costs associated with originating certain loan products. therefore, we restated our recognition of net loan fee income by increasing(decreasing) loan interest income by $(2.5) million, $(4.7) million, $(3.0) million, $1.2 million and $(0.2) million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001, and 2000 respectively. these amounts were deferred and are recognized into income using the appropriate loan fee recognition methodology over the lives of the corresponding loans. in addition, we reclassified certain letters of credit fee income of $7.6 million, $7.0 million, $8.4 million, $11.9 million and $7.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, from loan interest income to noninterest income, as the probability of the commitment being exercised was deemed to be remote. certain investment securities that were readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less, were not reported as cash equivalents in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 95, statement of cash flows (sfas no. 95). certain investment securities that were readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less, were not reported as cash equivalents in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 95. this reclassification did not result in any change to our revenue or net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000 or for any quarterly period during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. a reclassification has been made to our consolidated balance sheets of money market mutual fund investments and commercial paper investments from the investment securities line item to federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities line item. these investment securities were deemed to meet the definition of cash equivalents as they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less. cash equivalents are required to be reflected separately from investment securities pursuant to sfas no. 95. therefore, we reclassified these investment securities to federal funds, and securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities in the amounts of $181.3 million, $40.3 million, $381.8 million, $494.2 million and $195.2 million as of december 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable were not reflected net on our balances sheets in accordance with the provisions of fasb interpretation no. 39, offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts (fin no. 39). current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable were not reflected net on our balance sheets. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to our other assets and other liabilities as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable should be netted as the company has the legal right of offset, as defined by fin no. 39. therefore, other assets and other liabilities have been restated to reflect the net current federal income taxes receivable or net current federal income taxes payable at each of these period ends. this correction of accounting resulted in a decrease to both other assets and other liabilities of $22.5 million and $24.6 million as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. we also recorded various other adjusting entries as part of the restatement. overview of company operations see item i of part i above, business general for an overview of company operations. critical accounting policies the accompanying management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have, as restated, been prepared in accordance with gaap. the preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. management evaluates estimates on an ongoing basis. management bases its estimates on 22 historical experiences and various other factors and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. the financial impact of each estimate, to the extent significant to financial results, is discussed in the applicable sections of the management discussion and analysis. our critical accounting policies are described below. our senior management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these critical accounting policies with our audit committee. non-marketable equity securities our accounting for investments in non-marketable equity securities depends on several factors, including our level of ownership/control and the legal structure of our subsidiary making the investment. as further described below, we base our accounting for such securities on: (i) investment company fair value accounting, (ii) equity method accounting, or (iii) cost method accounting. investment company fair value our non-marketable equity securities recorded pursuant to investment company fair value accounting consists of our investments in the following funds: direct equity venture fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp, which makes equity investments in privately held companies; fund of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, which make investments in venture capital funds; and venture debt fund, partners for growth, lp, which provides financing to companies in the form of structured loans and equity investments. 23 a summary of our ownership interests in the investments held under investment company fair value accounting is presented in the following table: company ownership in general partner company ownership % silicon valley bancventures inc.(1) 100 %* svb strategic investors, llc(2) 100 %* svb strategic investors ii, llc(2) 100 %* partners for growth, llc(3) company ownership in limited partner company ownership % silicon valley bancventures , lp(1) 10.7 %* svb strategic investors fund, lp(2) 11.1 %* svb strategic investors fund ii, lp(2) 14.4 %* partners for growth, lp(3) 53.2 %* note * entity results of operations and financial condition are included in the consolidated financial statements of svb financial group, net of minority interest. (1) the general partner, silicon valley bancventures, inc. is owned and controlled by svb financial and has an ownership interest of 10.7% in silicon valley bancventures, lp. the limited partners do not have substantive participating or kick-out rights. therefore, silicon valley bancventures, lp is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. (2) the general partner of svb strategic investors fund, lp (sif i), svb strategic investors, llc, is owned and controlled by svb financial and has an ownership interest of 11.1%. the general partner of svb strategic investors fund ii (sif ii), lp, svb strategic investors ii, llc, is owned and controlled by svb financial and has an ownership interest of 14.4%. the limited partners of these funds do not have substantive participating or kick-out rights. therefore, sif i and ii are consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the venture capital fund investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. (3) the general partner of partners for growth, lp, partners for growth, llc, is not owned or controlled by svb financial. the limited partners of this fund have substantive kick-out rights by which the general partner may be removed without cause by simple majority vote of the limited partners. svb financial has an ownership interest of 53.2% in partners for growth, lp. accordingly, the fund is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. under investment company accounting, the investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by the fund respective general partner. the valuation generally remains at cost until such time that there is significant evidence of a change in value based upon consideration of the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategies, and other pertinent information. thus, any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in our consolidated net income. the portion of any gains or losses attributable to the limited partners is reflected as minority interest in net income (loss) of consolidated affiliates and adjusts svb financial group consolidated net income to reflect its percentage ownership. equity method our equity method non-marketable equity securities consist of an investment in a venture debt fund and several qualified affordable housing tax credit funds. the venture debt fund investment is in gold hill venture lending 03, lp, which provides financing to privately-held companies in the form of loans and equity investments. svb financial group has a direct and indirect interests totaling 9.8% in gold hill venture lending 03, lp. our total interest in gold hill venture lending 03, lp exceeds the 5% ownership interest threshold established by eitf topic d-46 for cost method accounting. accordingly, this limited partnership investment is accounted for under the equity method. thus, the company recognizes its proportionate share of the results of operations of each equity method investee in its results of operations. we invest in several qualified affordable housing projects which provide benefits in the form of tax credits. our limited partnership investments in qualified affordable housing projects do not qualify for the effective yield method under eitf 94-1, accounting for tax benefits resulting from investments in affordable housing projects (eitf 94-1). accordingly, we account for such investments under the equity method in accordance with the provisions of the aicpa statement of position (sop) 78-9, accounting for investments in real estate ventures. we review these investments at least quarterly for possible other than temporary impairment. our review typically includes an analysis of facts and circumstances for each investment, the expectations of the investment future cash flows and capital needs, variability of its business and our exit strategy. we reduce the investment value when we consider declines in value to be other than temporary. we recognize the estimated loss as a loss on investment securities, a component of noninterest income. cost method our cost method non-marketable equity securities and related accounting policies are described as follows: in accordance with the provisions of accounting principles board opinion no. 18 (apb no. 18), equity securities, such as preferred or common stock in privately-held companies in which we hold an ownership interest of less than 20% and in which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investees operating and financial policies, are accounted for under the cost method. these non-marketable equity securities also include certain investments made for various other purposes, such as shares purchased pursuant to regulatory requirements (for example, federal reserve bank and federal home loan bank stock). in accordance with the provisions of eitf topic d-46, accounting for limited partnership investments (eitf topic d-46) investments in limited partnerships in which we hold a voting ownership interest of less than 5% and in which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investees operating and financial policies, are accounted for under the cost method. these non-marketable equity securities include investments in venture capital funds. as stated above, we record these investments at cost and recognize as income, distributions or returns received from net accumulated earnings of the investee since the date of acquisition. our share of net accumulated earnings of the investee after the date of investment are recognized in consolidated net income only to the extent distributed by the investee. distributions or returns received in excess of accumulated earnings are considered a return of investment and are recorded as reductions in the cost basis of the investment. we review these assets at least quarterly for possible other than temporary impairment. our review typically includes an analysis of facts and circumstances for each investment, the expectations of the investment future cash flows and capital needs, variability of its business and our exit strategy. we reduce the investment value when we consider declines in value to be other than temporary. we recognize the estimated loss as a loss on investment securities, a component of noninterest income. gains or losses on cost method investment securities that result from a portfolio company being acquired by a publicly traded company are marked to market when the acquisition occurs. the resulting gains or losses are recognized into consolidated net income on that date in accordance with eitf issue no. 91-5, nonmonetary exchange of cost-method investments (eitf 91-5). further fluctuations in the market value of these equity securities are excluded from consolidated net income and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income net of applicable taxes, a component of stockholders equity. upon the sale of these equity securities to a third party, gains and losses, which are measured from the acquisition value, are recognized in the company consolidated net income. 24 we consider our non-marketable equity securities accounting policies to be critical because the valuation of non-marketable equity securities is subject to management judgment. the inherent uncertainty in the process of valuing equity securities for which a ready market is unavailable may cause our estimated values of these securities to differ significantly from the values that would have been derived had a ready market for the securities existed, and those differences could be material. future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investment carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future. for further information related to non-marketable equity securities for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, please refer to the table under part ii quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. results of operations earnings summary we reported consolidated net income of $63.9 million in 2004, as compared to consolidated net income of $13.0 million in 2003 and $54.5 million in 2002. diluted earnings per common share totaled $1.70 for 2004, as compared to $0.35 for 2003 and $1.21 for 2002. dilutive effect of contingently convertible debt on our diluted earnings per share calculation we included the dilutive effect of the $150.0 million zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes due june 15, 2008 in our fully diluted earnings per share (eps) calculation using the treasury stock method, in accordance with the provisions of eitf 90-19, convertible bonds with issuer option to settle in cash upon conversion (eitf 90-19) and sfas no. 128, earnings per share (sfas no. 128). the exposure draft of sfas no. 128r, if adopted in its proposed form, will require us to change our accounting for the calculation of eps on our contingently convertible debt to the if converted method. the if converted treatment of the contingently convertible debt would have decreased eps by $0.17 per diluted common share, or 10.0 percent for 2004. 30 2004 compared to 2003 increase in consolidated net income increase in net interest income, decrease in impairment of goodwill expense consolidated net income increased by $50.8 million between 2004 and 2003: impairment of goodwill expense decreased by $61.1 million. in 2003, we incurred charges aggregating $63.0 million related to our investment banking business unit, svb alliant; net interest income increased by $46.6 million, primarily due to increased interest income from both investment securities and loans; and noninterest income increased by $26.1 million, primarily due to an increase of $14.8 million in returns on investments securities. in addition, corporate finance fees increased $9.8 million, an increase in letter of credit and standby letter of credit income of $1.1 million and an increase in client investment fees of $2.9 million, offset by reduced gains on derivative instruments of $3.5 million. these improvements to consolidated net income were partially offset by increases in certain noninterest expense categories, particularly compensation and benefits expense, which was higher in 2004 primarily due to variable compensation, attributable to our improved financial performance. additionally, we experienced an increase in professional services expense primarily due to expenses associated with sarbanes-oxley compliance. finally, our effective tax rate increased to 37.8% in 2004 from 24.2% in 2003. 2003 compared to 2002 decrease in consolidated net income decrease in net interest income, impairment of goodwill expense consolidated net income decreased by $41.5 million between 2003 and 2002. the decrease in consolidated net income between 2003 and 2002 primarily resulted from an increase of $81.6 million in noninterest expense. the increase in noninterest expense was principally due to the following factors: impairment of goodwill charges aggregating $63.0 million related to svb alliant, and increase in expense associated with our incentive compensation program, which we believe was necessary to retain our professional talent in an improving economic environment. additionally, due to a decrease in the weighted-average prime rate of 4.1% for the year ended december 31, 2003, from 4.7% for the year ended december 31, 2002, we earned lower interest income from our loan portfolios, which resulted in a decline in net interest income. however, our provision for loan loss expense decreased by $15.8 million for 2003, as compared to 2002, largely due to a significant loan loss recovery, and our improved credit quality. 31 the major components of net income and changes in these components are summarized in the following table for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, and are discussed in more detail on the following pages. (as restated) years ended december 31, %change %change (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2004/2003 2002 2003/2002 net interest income $ 230,289 $ 183,700 25.4 % $ 192,267 (4.5 )% (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses (10,289 ) (9,892 ) 4.0 5,873 (268.4 ) noninterest income 106,962 80,831 32.3 71,426 13.2 noninterest expense 241,830 264,896 (8.7 ) 183,326 44.5 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (3,090 ) 7,689 (140.2 ) 7,767 (1.0 ) income before income tax expense 102,620 17,216 496.1 82,261 (79.1 ) income tax expense 38,754 4,174 828.5 27,761 (85.0 ) net income $ 63,866 $ 13,042 389.7 $ 54,500 (76.1 ) return on average assets 1.34 % 0.32 % 1.40 % return on average stockholders equity 12.90 2.58 8.50 average stockholders equity to average assets 10.38 12.44 16.46 net interest income and margin net interest income is defined as the difference between interest earned (primarily on loans, investment securities and federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments) and interest paid on funding sources (such as deposits and borrowings). net interest income is our principal source of revenue. net interest margin is defined as the amount of net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average yield earned on interest-earning assets is the amount of taxable-equivalent interest income expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average rate paid on funding sources is defined as interest expense as a percentage of average funding sources. 32 the following table sets forth average assets, liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity, interest income and interest expense, average yields and rates, and the composition of our net interest margin for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002. (as restated) years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate interest-earning assets: federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments(1) $ 607,460 $ 8,421 1.39 % $ 689,899 $ 8,024 1.16 % $ 645,290 $ 11,517 1.78 % investment securities(2): taxable 1,648,536 70,651 4.29 992,598 39,295 3.96 887,358 37,933 4.27 non-taxable(3) 123,243 7,698 6.25 142,597 9,613 6.74 177,058 10,606 5.99 loans(4)(5)(6): commercial 1,613,689 141,179 8.75 1,506,929 129,405 8.59 1,506,547 139,256 9.24 real estate construction and term 120,568 6,511 5.40 98,720 5,989 6.07 102,479 7,245 7.07 consumer and other 217,398 9,914 4.56 192,341 8,192 4.26 151,613 7,298 4.81 total loans 1,951,655 157,604 8.08 1,797,990 143,586 7.99 1,760,639 153,799 8.74 total interest-earning assets 4,330,894 244,374 5.64 3,623,084 200,518 5.53 3,470,345 213,855 6.16 cash and due from banks 213,213 192,591 182,400 allowance for loan and lease losses (48,249 ) (58,658 ) (61,042 ) goodwill 37,066 91,992 98,252 other assets(2) 239,985 207,459 205,915 total assets $ 4,772,909 $ 4,056,468 $ 3,895,870 funding sources: interest-bearing liabilities: now deposits $ 25,986 114 0.44 $ 23,447 105 0.45 $ 33,567 220 0.66 regular money market deposits 513,699 2,587 0.50 332,632 1,824 0.55 288,238 2,751 0.95 bonus money market deposits 739,976 3,721 0.50 673,982 3,686 0.55 614,378 5,855 0.95 time deposits 329,336 2,001 0.61 485,199 3,468 0.71 610,996 7,403 1.21 contingently convertible debt 146,255 943 0.64 73,791 572 0.78 0.00 junior subordinated debentures 49,366 1,505 3.05 23,823 3,026 12.70 0.00 other borrowings 16,605 520 3.13 40,903 772 1.89 57,593 1,647 2.86 total interest-bearing liabilities 1,821,223 11,391 0.63 1,653,777 13,453 0.81 1,604,772 17,876 1.11 portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 2,509,671 1,969,307 1,865,573 total funding sources 4,330,894 11,391 0.26 3,623,084 13,453 0.37 3,470,345 17,876 0.52 noninterest-bearing funding sources: demand deposits 2,296,411 1,762,306 1,516,277 other liabilities 100,920 79,079 64,007 trust preferred securities(7) 19,193 38,267 minority interest 59,152 37,481 31,145 stockholders equity 495,203 504,632 641,402 portion used to fund interest-earning assets (2,509,671 ) (1,969,307 ) (1,865,573 ) total liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity $ 4,772,909 $ 4,056,468 $ 3,895,870 net interest income and margin $ 232,983 5.38 % $ 187,065 5.16 % $ 195,979 5.64 % total deposits $ 3,905,408 $ 3,277,566 $ 3,063,456 (1) includes average interest-yielding deposits in other financial institutions of $10,559, $783, and $609 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (2) average noninterest-earning investment securities, primarily marketable and non-marketable equity securities, are excluded from the totals of investment securities and are included in other assets. average noninterest-earning investment securities amounted to $137,475, $130,030 and $120,126 for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the calculation of yield on available-for-sale securities is based on average historical cost and does not give effect to changes in fair value that are reflected in stockholders equity. (3) interest income on nontaxable investments is presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. these adjustments were $2,694, $3,365, and $3,712 for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. (4) average loans include average nonaccrual loans of $14,533, $16,089, and $19,602 in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. (5) average loans are net of average unearned income of $10,407, $10,541 and $9,994 in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. (6) loan interest income includes loan fees of $31,940, $31,164, and $34,260 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 33 (7) adoption of fin 46r in december 2003 and sfas no. 150 in may 2003 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense from noninterest expense to interest expense on a prospective basis. additionally, the adoption of fin 46r and sfas no. 150 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities from noninterest-bearing funding sources to interest-bearing liabilities on a prospective basis. prior to adoption of fin 46r and sfas no. 150, in accordance with accounting rules in effect at that time, the company recorded trust preferred securities distribution expense as noninterest expense. on october 30, 2003, $50.0 million in cumulative 7.0% trust preferred securities were issued through a newly formed special purpose trust, svb capital ii. we received $51.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of 7.0% junior subordinated debentures to svb capital ii. a portion of the net proceeds were used to redeem the existing $40.0 million of 8.25% trust preferred securities. approximately $1.3 million of unamortized issuance costs related to redemption of the $40.0 million 8.25% trust preferred securities were included in interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2003. net interest income is affected by changes in the amount and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as volume change. net interest income is also affected by changes in yields earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as rate change . the following table sets forth changes in interest income for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest expense for each major category of interest-bearing liabilities. the table also reflects the amount of simultaneous changes attributable to both volume and rate changes for the years indicated. for this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated in proportion to the percentage changes in average volume and average rate. changes relating to investments in non-taxable municipal securities are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. (as restated) (as restated) 2004 compared to 2003 increase (decrease) due to changes in 2003 compared to 2002 increase (decrease) due to changes in (dollars in thousands) volume rate total volume rate total interest income: federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments $ (1,029 ) $ 1,426 $ 397 $ 750 $ (4,243 ) $ (3,493 ) investment securities 26,631 2,810 29,441 2,072 (1,703 ) 369 loans 12,393 1,625 14,018 3,207 (13,420 ) (10,213 ) increase (decrease) in interest income 37,995 5,861 43,856 6,029 (19,366 ) (13,337 ) interest expense: now deposits 11 (2 ) 9 (56 ) (59 ) (115 ) regular money market deposits 922 (159 ) 763 376 (1,303 ) (927 ) bonus money market deposits 345 (310 ) 35 523 (2,692 ) (2,169 ) time deposits (1,000 ) (467 ) (1,467 ) (1,315 ) (2,620 ) (3,935 ) contingently convertible debt 481 (110 ) 371 572 572 junior subordinated debentures 1,802 (3,323 ) (1,521 ) 3,026 3,026 other borrowings (602 ) 350 (252 ) (403 ) (472 ) (875 ) increase (decrease) in interest expense 1,959 (4,021 ) (2,062 ) 2,723 (7,146 ) (4,423 ) increase (decrease) in net interest income $ 36,036 $ 9,882 $ 45,918 $ 3,306 $ (12,220 ) $ (8,914 ) 2004 compared to 2003 net interest income net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, totaled $233.0 million for 2004, an increase of $45.9 million, or 24.5%, from 2003. the increase in net interest income was the result of a $43.9 million increase in interest income and a $2.1 million decrease in interest expense. interest income net increase in interest-earning assets (volume variance) the $43.9 million increase in interest income for 2004, as compared to 2003, was primarily the result of a $38.0 million favorable volume variance. the favorable volume variance resulted from a $707.8 million, or 19.5% increase, in average interest-earning assets. we believe increases in our sources of funding, largely deposits, were the main contributors to the increase in average interest-earning assets. we believe deposits increased due to an improved venture capital funding environment and general improvements in business conditions for many of our clients. this increase in average interest-earning assets was primarily centered in investment securities, which increased $636.6 million, and loans, which increased $153.7 million. 34 average investment securities increased by $636.6 million, resulting in a $26.6 million favorable volume variance. throughout 2004, we continued our investment strategy of changing the investment portfolio mix by increasing the portion of the portfolio invested in relatively higher-yielding mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. our average investments in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations collectively increased by $564.8 million for 2004 as compared to 2003, largely funded by increases in client deposits. we estimated the duration of our investment portfolio increased to 2.1 years at december 31, 2004, from 1.7 years at december 31, 2003. the increase in duration was primarily due to the increase in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations whose average duration is typically in the 2 to 5 year range. in addition, average loans increased by $153.7 million, or 8.5% in 2004 as compared to 2003, resulting in a $12.4 million favorable volume variance. the volume variance is largely driven by growth in our commercial loan category, which increased by $106.8 million. in particular, the average balances of higher-yielding loan products such as asset-based loans and accounts receivable factoring increased by $39.4 million and $68.6 million, respectively. in addition, we also grew our average real estate and consumer loan portfolios. the increase in average loans reflects an improvement in economic activity and in the markets served by us. these new loans continue to be subject to our existing underwriting practices. our strategy is to grow average loans modestly during 2005 as our corporate technology efforts continue to develop. our loan yield in 2004 included $5.7 million from accretion of warrant loan fees as compared to $6.6 million in 2003. average federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments for 2004 decreased by $82.4 million, or 11.9%, resulting in a $1.0 million unfavorable volume variance. interest income shift in the composition of average interest-earning assets (rate variance) favorable rate variances associated with each component of interest-earning assets caused a $5.9 million increase in interest income in 2004 as compared to 2003. although the yields on federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities increased and the yield on loans remained unchanged, t he yield on total average interest-earning assets remained relatively unchanged. t he overall yield remained unchanged due to a change in the mix of our total average interest-earning assets. in 2004, investment securities represented 40.9% of our total average interest-earning assets and loans represented 45.1% of our total average interest-earning assets. in 2003, investment securities represented 31.3% of our total average interest-earning assets, and loans represented 49.6% of our total average interest-earning assets. thus, the increase in yields on federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities in 2004 as compared to 2003 was offset by the change in overall composition of our interest-earning assets. we increased our prime lending rate by 25 basis points on each of five occasions in the latter half of 2004, increasing it from 4.00% to 5.25%. as of december 31, 2004, approximately 81.3%, or $1.9 billion, of our outstanding loans were variable rate loans, which would re-price with any further increase or any decrease in our prime lending rate, unless restricted by the terms of any such loans. the yield on investment securities increased by 11 basis points to 4.42% in 2004 from 4.31% for 2003, causing a $2.8 million favorable rate variance. this was primarily due to a shift in the composition of a portion of the investment portfolio to relatively higher-yielding mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. we also realized a $1.4 million favorable rate variance associated with our federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments , which is largely driven by higher short-term market interest rates in 2004 as compared to 2003. we expect to continue the trend of managing federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments at appropriate levels for our liquidity needs. interest expense total interest expense for 2004 decreased by $2.1 million from 2003, despite a $167.4 million, or 10.1% increase in our interest-bearing liabilities. the decrease in interest expense was primarily the result of a $4.0 million favorable rate variance, partially offset by a $1.9 million unfavorable volume variance. 35 we experienced a favorable rate variance of $4.0 million primarily due to lower interest expense related to borrowing. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we recognized $1.3 million in unamortized issuance costs associated with the early redemption of the $40.0 million, 8.25% trust preferred securities. also, in the fourth quarter of 2003, we issued $51.5 million in 7.0% junior subordinated debentures and simultaneously entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $50.0 million. this interest rate swap agreement hedges against the risk of changes in fair value associated with our 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. the terms of this fair value hedge agreement provide for a swap of our 7.0% fixed rate payment for a variable rate based on libor plus a spread. for 2004, we paid interest expense of $3.5 million on the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. however, the fair value hedge agreement provided income of $2.2 million, resulting in net interest expense of $1.3 million for 2004. there were significant fluctuations in several line items of the total interest expense volume variance, which largely offset each other. in particular, the implementation sfas no. 150 and fin 46 in mid-2003 required us to reclassify our trust preferred securities to the long-term debt category during 2003. additionally, these accounting pronouncements also required us to classify the trust preferred securities distribution expense as interest expense, on a prospective basis. the trust preferred distribution expense had previously been classified as noninterest expense. increases in regular money market and bonus money market deposits contributed a $1.3 million unfavorable variance to the total interest expense volume variance. this unfavorable volume variance was largely offset by lower time deposits, which provided a $1.0 million favorable volume variance. due to the general improvement in the venture capital funding environment, highly-liquid money market deposits increased by $247.1 million, while longer-term time deposits have decreased by $155.9 million. our clients may use time deposits as collateral for letters of credit issued by silicon valley bank on their behalf, to certain third parties such as real estate lessors. we believe time deposits have decreased partly because of a softer real estate market, which generally reduces the frequency of these types of arrangements. moreover, due to the general improvement in the economic environment, borrowings secured by time deposits have decreased. a shift of client funds from time deposits to more liquid money market deposits also contributed to the favorable rate variance. the average cost of funds of 0.26% for 2004 represented a decrease from 0.37% in 2003. the decrease was largely attributable to a decrease in the cost of borrowings and to a relative increase in noninterest-bearing funding sources as a percentage of total funding sources. 2003 compared to 2002 net interest income net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent basis totaled $187.1 million in 2003, a decrease of $8.9 million, or 4.5%, from $196.0 million in 2002. the decrease in net interest income was due to a $13.3 million, or 6.2%, decline in interest income, offset by a $4.4 million, or 24.7%, decrease in interest expense over the comparable prior-year period. interest expense in 2003 included $3.0 million related to the sfas no. 150 and fin 46 mandated classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense as interest expense for the latter half of 2003. for periods prior to june 30, 2003, trust preferred securities distribution expense was classified as noninterest expense and therefore did not impact the net interest margin. interest income impact of declining market interest rates on interest-earning assets (rate variance) throughout the decreasing market interest rate environment, we implemented numerous measures to minimize the impact to our net interest margin. these measures included diversifying the product mix in the investment portfolio to higher yielding, high-quality assets and reducing rates paid on interest-bearing deposits. additionally, we increased the duration of our investment securities portfolio by replacing certain short-term, lower yielding securities with longer-term, higher-yielding securities such as collateralized mortgage obligations, thereby taking advantage of a steeper interest rate curve. overall, the duration of our investment securities portfolio increased to approximately 1.7 years in 2003, from approximately 1.5 years in 2002. 36 the $13.3 million decrease in interest income for 2003, as compared to 2002, was the result of a $19.4 million unfavorable rate variance associated with each component of interest-earning assets, partially offset by a $6.0 million favorable volume variance. market interest rates decreased slightly during 2003, which caused the weighted average prime rate to decline by 56 basis points to 4.12% from 4.68% in 2002. consequently, the yield on loans decreased by 75 basis points in 2003 to 7.99% from 8.74% in 2002. in 2003, we incurred a $13.4 million unfavorable rate variance associated with our loan portfolio. floating rate loans, which represent approximately 81.2% of our total loan portfolio, produced lower interest income due to a lower average prime rate in 2003 compared to 2002. the average yield on federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments also decreased due to the decline in market interest rates from 1.78% in 2002 to 1.16% in 2003, which caused a $4.2 million unfavorable rate variance. interest income net increase in interest-earning assets (volume variance) total average interest-earning assets in 2003 increased $152.7 million, or 4.4% as compared to the prior year. the increase in total average interest-earning assets was principally funded by an increase in average noninterest-bearing deposits of $246.0 million, or 16.2%, and an increase in average long-term debt of $80.9 million, or 140.5%, offset by a decrease in average stockholders equity of $136.8 million, or 21.3%. the increase in average long-term debt was principally due to the issuance of $150.0 million of zero coupon convertible debt in may 2003. the net proceeds from the issuance of the convertible debt were largely used to repurchase our common stock, which resulted in the aforementioned decrease in average stockholders equity. average loans increased $37.4 million, or 2.1%, in 2003, as compared to 2002, resulting in a $3.2 million favorable volume variance. our loan yield in 2003 included $6.6 million from accretion of warrant loan fees as compared to $9.0 million in 2002. in 2003, we grew our average loan portfolio to a record level by continuing to focus on attracting corporate technology clients, which we believed were under-served by our competitors. we experienced loan growth across most of the industry sectors we serve. average investment securities for 2003 increased $70.8 million, or 6.6%, as compared to 2002, resulting in a $2.1 million favorable volume variance. the increase in average investment securities was primarily an increase in longer-term collateralized mortgage obligations. average federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments increased $44.6 million, or 6.9%, in 2003, as compared to the prior year, resulting in a $0.8 million favorable volume variance. this increase was primarily due to a change in the investment portfolio mix. the yield on average interest-earning assets decreased 63 basis points in 2003 from the prior year. this decrease primarily resulted from a decline in short-term market interest rates; thus, we earned lower yields on each component of our interest-earning assets. interest expense total interest expense in 2003 decreased $4.4 million from 2002. this decrease was due to a favorable rate variance of $7.1 million, partially offset by an unfavorable volume variance of $2.7 million. the favorable rate variance between 2003 and 2002 primarily resulted from a reduction in the average rates paid on all of our interest-bearing deposits, particularly those rates paid on our time deposit and bonus money market deposit products. the unfavorable volume variance was due in large part to the sfas no. 150 mandated classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense of $3.0 million as interest expense for the latter half of 2003. trust preferred securities distribution expense was previously classified as noninterest expense. of the $3.0 million in trust preferred securities distribution expense, approximately $1.3 million related to the recognition of deferred issuance costs in the fourth quarter of 2003, due to the early redemption of our 8.25% trust preferred securities. we entered into an interest rate swap agreement to swap our 7.0% fixed payment on junior subordinated debentures for a variable rate based on the london inter-bank offer rate (libor) plus a spread. additionally, we experienced an unfavorable volume variance of $3.2 million related to borrowings. in the second quarter of 2003, we issued $150.0 million of zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes, with a maturity of june 15, 2008. although no interest was paid on the notes, we experienced an increase in interest expense due 37 to amortization of the contingently convertible debt issuance costs. the overall unfavorable volume variance caused primarily by long-term debt and trust preferred securities was partially offset by average time deposits, which decreased from $611.0 million in 2002 to $485.2 million in 2003, causing a $1.3 million favorable volume variance. the average cost of funds paid on average interest-bearing liabilities in 2003 was 0.81% down from 1.11% in 2002. this decrease in the average cost of funds was largely due to a decrease of 50 basis points on the average rates paid on both our money market deposit and time deposit products. provision for loan losses the provision for loan losses is based on our evaluation of the adequacy of the existing allowance for loan and lease losses in relation to total loans and on our periodic assessment of the inherent and identified risk dynamics of the loan portfolio resulting from reviews of selected individual loans and loan commitments. for a more detailed discussion of credit quality and the allowance for loan and lease losses, see item 7. critical accounting policies and item 7. financial condition credit quality and the allowance for loan and lease losses. 2004 compared to 2003 continued improved credit quality prompts further recovery of provision for loan losses we realized a recovery of provision for loan losses of $10.3 million in 2004 compared to a recovery of provision for loan losses of $9.9 million in 2003. in 2003, our loan loss recoveries exceeded loan charge offs by $1.4 million. we incurred net charge-offs of approximately $2.0 million in 2004 and credit quality remained strong with nonperforming loans at 0.64% of gross loans. we believe the improvement in the recovery of loan losses was primarily attributable to our improved credit risk management and to improved economic conditions. 2003 compared to 2002 improved credit quality leads to recovery of provision for loan losses we realized a recovery of provision for loan losses of $9.9 million in 2003, as compared to provision for loan losses of $5.9 million in 2002. we realized a slight net recovery of loan losses in 2003, compared to net charge-offs of $4.4 million in 2002. the change in provision for loan losses for 2003, as compared to 2002, resulted from the improvement in our loan portfolio credit quality position. a large part of the loan recoveries in 2003 related to a settlement in august 2003 of litigation commenced by us relating to a charged-off film loan. this was reflected in the provision for loan losses for both the third quarter and nine months ended september 30, 2003. in october 2000, we filed a civil lawsuit for approximately $8.3 million (plus attorneys fees and interest) in the united states district court for the central district of california, against certain insurance companies for various causes of action, including breach of contract, breach of the duty of good faith, and fair dealing and fraud. the lawsuit concerned our claim for insurance coverage under an insurance policy issued to us by these insurance companies related to a loan made by us to finance production of a film. in the third quarter of 2003, the parties entered into a confidential and mutually agreeable settlement agreement, after which we dismissed the lawsuit. as a result of the settlement, we recorded significant recovery related to a previously charged-off film loan. 38 noninterest income the following table summarizes the components of noninterest income and the percent change from year to year: (as restated) years ended december 31, %change %change (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2004/2003 2002 2003/2002 client investment fees $ 26,919 $ 23,991 12.2 % $ 30,344 (20.9 )% corporate finance fees 22,024 12,204 80.5 10,872 12.3 letter of credit and standby letter of credit income 9,994 8,912 12.1 10,258 (13.1 ) deposit service charges 13,538 13,202 2.5 9,072 45.5 gains (losses) on investment, securities net 5,198 (9,614 ) (154.1 ) (10,679 ) (10.0 ) credit card fees 2,817 3,431 (17.9 ) 955 259.3 gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 16,746 20,200 (17.1 ) 11,815 71.0 other 9,726 8,505 14.4 8,789 (3.2 ) total noninterest income $ 106,962 $ 80,831 32.3 % $ 71,426 13.2 % at december 31, 2004 at december 31, 2003 at december 31, 2002 (dollars in millions) client investment funds(1): private label client investment funds $ 7,261 $ 7,615 $ 7,642 client investment assets under management 2,678 592 sweep funds 1,351 1,139 853 total client investment funds $ 11,290 $ 9,346 $ 8,495 (1) client funds invested through svb financial group, maintained at third party financial institutions. we offer investment products and services that include mutual funds and other investments, sweep products, and asset management services to our clients. our fees, calculated on clients average balances, ranged from 9 to 70 basis points (fixed income securities and federated sweep, respectively) as of december 31, 2004, compared to a range of 10 to 100 basis points as of december 31, 2003. total client investment funds were $11.3 billion at december 31, 2004, compared to $9.3 billion at december 31, 2003, an increase of $2.0 billion, or 20.8%. as of december 31, 2004, client investment assets under management accounted for $2.7 billion, or 23.7%, of total client investment funds. mutual fund products were $6.2 billion at december 31, 2004, and $6.4 billion at december 31, 2003. client investment fee income increased by $2.9 million from 2003 to 2004. client investment fees for 2004 were $26.9 million. the increased income was largely attributable to the growth in client investment funds. the increase in corporate finance fees in 2004 over 2003 was in large part due to a single large investment banking transaction, which generated $6.1 million in fees. svb alliant business is highly variable so we expect to see significant changes in corporate finance fees from year to year. the increase in letter of credit and standby letter of credit income was primarily due to a higher volume of transactions, which resulted from increased global economic activity associated with our clients markets. we recognized net investment gains in 2004, as compared to net investment losses in 2003. 39 (as restated) years ended december 31, % change (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2004/2003 gross gains on investment securities: available-for-sale securities, at fair value $ 2,738 $ non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments 5,568 1,541 261.3 % other private equity investments 3,163 2,324 36.1 % other investments 7 12 (41.7 )% non-marketable securities (cost method accounting) : venture capital fund investments 1,282 154 732.5 % other private equity investments 1,035 2,113 (51.0 )% total gross gains on investment securities 13,793 6,144 124.5 % gross losses on investment securities: available-for-sale securities, at fair value (535 ) (1,447 ) (63.0 )% non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments (3,655 ) (5,966 ) (38.7 )% other private equity investments (977 ) (4,063 ) (76.0 )% other investments (48 ) (40 ) 20.0 % non-marketable securities (cost method accounting) : venture capital fund investments (3,063 ) (2,802 ) 9.3 % other private equity investments (317 ) (1,440 ) (78.0 )% total gross losses on investment securities (8,595 ) (15,758 ) (45.5 )% net gains (losses) on investment securities $ 5,198 $ (9,614 ) (154.1 )% investment gains in 2004 were principally derived from the changes in fair value and realized sales of marketable and non-marketable equity securities from private equity securities, our managed funds of funds, our managed venture capital fund, and direct equity investments. losses on our equity investments, excluding the impact of minority interest, were $1.3 million for 2004 compared to $4.0 million for 2003. we expect continued variability in the performance of our equity portfolio. credit card fees declined slightly in 2004. as a result of our increased efforts to market a full range of fee-based financial services to our clients, client usage of this product increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as did the fees charged for this line of service. 40 the following table summarizes the components of gains (losses) on derivative instruments for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, and the percent changes from period to period: (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 % change 2004/2003 foreign exchange forwards $ 13,997 $ 10,991 27.3 % interest rate swap 1,001 equity warrant assets change in fair value: cancellations and expirations (2,424 ) (2,970 ) (18.4 )% other changes in equity warrant asset fair value 5,173 11,178 (53.7 )% total gains on derivative instruments, net $ 16,746 $ 20,200 (17.1 )% the change in fair value of equity warrant assets is primarily attributed to the changes in the value of the underlying assumptions used to value the equity warrants including: changes in the risk-free interest rate, changes in the underlying value of the client companies stock, changes in the volatility of market comparable public companies and changes in the expected life. 2003 compared to 2002 decreases in client investment fees and letter of credit and standby letter of credit fee income, partially offset by an increase in deposit service charges client investment fees decreased in 2003 from 2002. fees on clients average balances ranged from 10 to 100 basis points in 2003 and 12.5 to 107 basis points in 2002. at december 31, 2003, $9.3 billion in client funds were invested in these products, compared to $8.5 billion in 2002. of these funds, $6.4 billion and $8.5 billion were invested in mutual fund products as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. total invested client funds have increased between 2003 and 2002, however the decrease in client investment fees from year to year was due to a shift in client investment mix. the sustained low interest rate environment has caused lower priced investment products to become a more attractive investment strategy for many of our clients. in the first quarter of 2003, we established a registered investment advisor (svb asset management) to meet the demand for active management of client investment portfolios. this action will allow us to provide a more expansive and competitive array of investment products and services to our clients. while the fees earned per dollar managed has been reduced, our strategy is to make up for the lower fees through greater volume. at december 31, 2003, svb asset management had $591.6 million of assets under management. deposit service charges increased in 2003 over 2002 as we have expanded and enhanced our suite of fee-based financial (depository) services and client usage has increased overall. clients compensate us for depository services, either through earnings credits computed on their demand deposit balances or via explicit payments that we recognize as deposit service charges income. earnings credits are calculated using client average daily deposit balances less a reserve requirement and a discounted u.s. treasury bill interest rate. clients received lower earnings credits in 2003 compared to 2002 due to lower short-term market interest rates, resulting in fewer earnings credits to offset deposit service charges. corporate finance fees increased slightly in 2003 from 2002. corporate finance fees totaled $10.9 million in 2002. in 2002, svb alliant, our investment-banking subsidiary, generated the entire balance of $10.9 million. svb alliant revenues are typically a function of the valuation of its clients mergers and acquisitions transactions. economic events depressed valuations of high technology and life science corporations in 2003 and 2002. thus, svb alliant has not achieved its merger and acquisition revenue goals. consequently, we incurred aggregate impairment of goodwill charges of $63.0 million in 2003; see the discussion under the heading noninterest expense contained later in this management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section. letter of credit and standby letter of credit fee income decreased between 2002 and 2003 as a result of increased competition and increased availability of these product types from other financial institutions. 41 (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2003 2002 % change 2003/2002 gross gains on investment securities: available-for-sale securities, at fair value $ $ 30 non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments 1,541 44 other private equity investments 2,324 581 300.0 % other investments 12 non-marketable securities (cost method accounting) : venture capital fund investments 154 275 (44.0 )% other private equity investments 2,113 142 total gross gains on investment securities 6,144 1,072 473.1 % gross losses on investment securities: available-for-sale securities, at fair value (1,447 ) non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments (5,966 ) (5,761 ) 3.6 % other private equity investments (4,063 ) (1,315 ) 209.0 % other investments (40 ) (40 ) 0.0 % non-marketable securities (cost method accounting) : venture capital fund investments (2,802 ) (2,510 ) 11.6 % other private equity investments (1,440 ) (2,125 ) (32.2 )% total gross losses on investment securities (15,758 ) (11,751 ) 34.1 % net losses on investment securities $ (9,614 ) $ (10,679 ) (10.0 )% the 2003 and 2002 losses were primarily related to the write-downs of certain managed venture capital fund and direct equity investments. excluding the impact of minority interest, the net write-downs of our equity securities totaled approximately $4.1 million in both 2003 and 2002. net losses on investment securities in 2003 decreased as compared to 2002. the decreases were principally derived from the changes in fair value and realized sales of marketable and non-marketable equity securities from private equity securities, our managed funds of funds, and direct equity investments. losses on our equity investments, excluding the impact of minority interest, were $4.0 million for 2003 compared to $4.9 million for 2002. we expect continued variability in the performance of our equity portfolio. the following table summarizes the components of gains (losses) on derivative instruments for the years ended december 31, 2003 and 2002, and the percent changes from period to period: (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2003 2002 % change 2003/2002 foreign exchange forwards $ 10,991 $ 13,415 (18.1 )% interest rate swap 1,001 1,070 (6.4 )% equity warrant assets change in fair value: cancellations and expirations (2,970 ) (2,430 ) 22.2 % other changes in equity warrant asset fair value 11,178 (240 ) total gains on derivative instruments $ 20,200 $ 11,815 71.0 % the change in fair value of equity warrant assets is primarily attributed to the changes in the value of the underlying assumptions used to value the equity warrants including: changes in the risk-free interest rate, changes 42 in the underlying value of the client companies stock, changes in the volatility of market comparable public companies and changes in the expected life. other noninterest income largely consisted of service-based fee income associated with our deposit and loan services as well as fund management fees. noninterest expense the following table presents the detail of noninterest expense and the percent change, year over year: (as restated) year ended december 31, % change % change (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2004/2003 2002 2003/2002 compensation and benefits $ 153,897 $ 121,653 26.5 % $ 103,505 17.5 % net occupancy 18,134 17,638 2.8 20,391 (13.5 ) professional services 17,068 13,677 24.8 18,385 (25.6 ) furniture and equipment 12,403 11,289 9.9 9,562 18.1 business development and travel 9,718 8,692 11.8 8,426 3.2 correspondent bank fees 5,340 4,343 23.0 2,835 53.2 data processing services 3,647 4,288 (14.9 ) 4,360 (1.7 ) telephone 3,367 3,187 5.6 3,123 2.0 postage and supplies 3,255 2,601 25.1 3,190 (18.5 ) tax credit funds amortization 2,480 2,704 (8.3 ) 2,963 (8.7 ) impairment of goodwill 1,910 63,000 (97.0 ) provision for unfunded credit commitments 1,549 2,504 (38.1 ) (3,338 ) (175.0 ) trust preferred securities distributions 1,595 (100.0 ) 3,300 (51.7 ) other 9,062 7,725 17.3 6,624 16.6 total noninterest expense $ 241,830 $ 264,896 (8.7 )% $ 183,326 44.5 % 2004 compared to 2003 decrease in impairment of goodwill, increases in compensation and benefits and professional services expense the increase in compensation and benefits expense of $32.2 million was primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation expense of $18.3 million, or 112.7 %, to $34.5 million during 2004, compared to $16.2 million during 2003. incentive compensation at svb alliant increased $6.9 million and was driven by a 80.5% increase in investment banking revenues from $12.2 million to $22.0 million. the remaining increase in incentive compensation is largely attributable to improved financial performance of silicon valley bank. the remainder of the increase in compensation and benefits expense during 2004 was largely due to increases in salaries and wages expense, employee stock ownership plan expense, and equity-based compensation expense. salaries and wages expense increased by $4.1 million, or 5.1%, to $84.3 million during 2004, compared to $80.2 million during 2003. the increase was primarily attributable to higher rates of employee salaries and wages. average full-time equivalent (fte) personnel was 999 during 2004, a slight increase from 994 fte personnel during 2003. employee stock ownership plan expense increased by $3.0 million, or 78.7%, to $6.8 million during 2004, compared to $3.8 million during 2003. the increase was attributable to our improved consolidated financial performance. see item 8. consolidated financial statements and supplementary data note 19. employee benefit plans for further discussion of the employee stock ownership plan. lastly, equity-based compensation increased by $2.4 million, or 237.0%, to $3.4 million in 2004, compared to $1.0 million in 2003. this increase reflects our increased use of restricted stock and restricted stock units, in lieu of stock options, as components of our employee compensation structure, as we transition our equity-based compensation programs. 43 net occupancy expense remained relatively unchanged between 2004 and 2003. however, on september 15, 2004, we renegotiated the lease related to our corporate headquarters facility in santa clara, california, which replaced the original lease, dated as of march 8, 1995. the new lease covers two buildings, comprising approximately 157,000 square feet of space, which we occupied under the previous lease, as well as a third building, comprising approximately 56,500 square feet of space, within the same facility complex. the total square feet of the premises leased under the new lease arrangement is approximately 213,500 square feet, which is approximately the same square footage of our corporate headquarters under its previous leases. the term of the new corporate headquarters lease began retroactively on august 1, 2004, and will end on september 30, 2014, unless terminated on an earlier date. based on the new lease terms, our corporate headquarters lease expense will be lower under the new lease arrangement. the landlord for these premises is contributing approximately $7.0 million towards the cost of these renovations, improvements, and alterations. we expect to incur renovation, improvement, and alteration costs in excess of this amount. professional services expenses consist of costs associated with corporate legal services, litigation settlements, accounting and auditing services, information technology and other consulting, and our board of directors. the increase in professional services was primarily due to three significant factors: firstly, in 2003, we settled the remaining aspects of a film loan litigation and were able to recover significant legal expenses pertaining to those proceedings. the recovery of legal costs was recorded, upon receipt of the funds, as a reduction of legal expense in 2003. secondly, in 2004 we incurred an increase in professional services fees associated with commitment of resources to document and enhance controls required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the independent audit thereof. in particular, these costs were substantially higher in the fourth quarter of 2004. lastly, we incurred approximately $1.4 million in professional fees related to fund raising activities associated with gold hill venture lending 03, lp which are venture debt fund entities. these venture debt funds raised approximately $214.1 million in capital commitments. svb financial group initiated the formation of these funds and agreed to pay a portion of the related fund raising fees. over the past few years, we have continued to emphasize stringent controls over the use of external consulting services. the increase in furniture and equipment expense is primarily due to the consolidation of two of our offices in southern california and the cost of furnishings for a newly opened silicon valley office. the increase in business development and travel was primarily due to costs related to our sponsorship of the inaugural svb tech investors forum in september 2004. at this event, which was held in san francisco, california, 76 public and private technology companies presented to over 500 investors. there were also incremental travel expenses associated with the opening of our international subsidiaries in london, england, and bangalore, india in september 2004. correspondent bank fees increased from year to year. many of our correspondent banks provide earnings credits to offset bank fees we incur when using their services. earnings credits are generally calculated using average daily deposit balances less a reserve requirement and a short-term market interest rate. we received lower earnings credits in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to our maintaining lower average balances with our correspondent banks and lower average short-term market interest rates. as such, we had fewer earnings credits to offset bank fees charges incurred by us. thus, we incurred higher recognizable bank fees in 2004 as compared to 2003. management made the decision to lower the average balances with correspondent banks because we were able to earn more on our funds by investing them than we would have benefited from lower correspondent bank fees by maintaining larger balances with our correspondent banks. the decrease in data processing expense was primarily due to the renegotiation, in late 2003, of the terms of an agreement with one of our more significant outsourced data processing providers from a data processing arrangement to a short-term software licensing arrangement. the change in the agreement was executed to facilitate the transition of this data processing from the external provider to our internal resources. hence the expenses associated with this vendor, which were classified as data processing in the first six months of 2003, were classified as expensed software under the caption furniture and equipment through august 2004. we commenced the in-sourcing of this data processing application in late 2004. 44 the decrease in impairment of goodwill expense can be attributed to charges of $63.0 million incurred in 2003 related to our investment banking business unit, svb alliant (see further discussion below under the 2003 compared to 2002 analysis). in 2004, we recognized an impairment charge in the third quarter related to our private client services business unit woodside asset management (see further discussion under financial condition goodwill below). 2003 compared to 2002 goodwill impairment charges, increase in variable compensation, decrease in professional services expense the increase in compensation and benefits expense of $18.1 million was primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation expense of $10.1 million, or 164.1%, to $16.2 million during 2003, compared to $6.1 million during 2002. we believed the increase in incentive compensation was necessary to retain our professional talent in an improving economic environment. the remainder of the increase in compensation and benefit expense during 2003 was due to an increase in salaries and wages expense, an increase in 401(k) benefits expense, and a residual net increase in other employee benefits. salaries and wages expense increased by $4.4 million, or 5.8%, to $79.0 million during 2003, compared to $74.6 million during 2002. the increase was primarily attributable to higher rates of employee salaries and wages. average full-time equivalent (fte) personnel of 994 during 2003 was slightly lower from 1,000 during 2002. 401(k) benefit expense increased by $2.1 million, or 238.7%, to $3.0 million during 2003, compared to $0.9 million during 2002. the increase was attributable to additional matching contributions made by us to this plan during 2003 resulting from changes to the 401(k) plan, which became effective as of january 1, 2003. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management a key objective of asset/liability management is to manage interest rate risk associated with changing asset and liability cash flows and market interest rate movements. interest rate risk occurs when interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities do not re-price simultaneously either in timing, volume or both. our alco provides oversight to our interest rate risk management process and recommends policy guidelines regarding exposure to interest rates for approval by our board of directors. adherence to these policies is monitored on an ongoing basis, and decisions related to the management of interest rate exposure are made when appropriate. we manage interest rate risk principally through strategies involving our investment securities portfolio. our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments in managing interest rate risk. derivative instruments that the company uses as a part of its interest risk management strategy may include interest rate swaps, caps and floors, and forward contracts. we had a fair value hedge in effect at december 31, 2004. this hedge is a $50.0 million fixed-for-variable swap of our 7% junior subordinated debentures, described in item 8 consolidated financial statements and supplementary data note 13. borrowings and under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition 7% junior subordinated debentures. for 2004, we paid interest expense of $3.5 million on the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. however, the fair value hedge agreement provided a benefit of $2.2 million, resulting in net interest expense of $1.3 million for 2004. our monitoring activities related to managing interest rate risk include both interest rate sensitivity gap analysis and the use of a simulation model. while traditional gap analysis provides a simple picture of the interest rate risk embedded in the balance sheet, it provides only a static view of interest rate sensitivity at a specific point in time and does not measure the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. accordingly, we combine the use of gap analysis with use of a simulation model that provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity. interest rate sensitivity analysis the interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-sensitive liabilities that are anticipated to re-price within a specific time period. a gap is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest-sensitive liabilities re-pricing within that same time period. positive cumulative gaps in early time periods suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates rise. negative cumulative gaps suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates fall. the gap analysis as of december 31, 2004 indicates that the cumulative one-year gap as a percentage of interest-earning assets was a positive 37.8%. 73 the following table illustrates our interest rate sensitivity gap positions at december 31, 2004: (as restated) assets and liabilities which mature or reprice (dollars in thousands) immediately 1 day to 1 month after 1 month to 3 months after 3 months to 6 months after 6 months to 1 year after 1 year to 5 years after 5 years not stated total assets: cash and due from bank (1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 284,208 $ 284,208 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 343,010 343,010 investment securities: u.s. treasury and agencies obligations(2) 611 27,486 220,000 60,000 308,097 collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities(2) 30,425 31,613 48,244 91,535 634,453 673,086 1,509,356 other debt, marketable equity and non-marketable securities 9,851 1,715 2,475 7,380 77,832 8,635 149,626 257,514 total investment securities 40,887 33,328 50,719 126,401 932,285 741,721 149,626 2,074,967 loans, net of unearned income(3)(4) 1,629,413 136,025 95,083 78,754 101,547 247,051 20,715 2,308,588 allowance for loan losses (37,613 ) (37,613 ) other assets 172,519 172,519 total assets $ 1,629,413 $ 519,922 $ 128,411 $ 129,473 $ 227,948 $ 1,179,336 $ 762,436 $ 568,740 $ 5,145,679 liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity: noninterest-bearing demand $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,649,853 $ 2,649,853 now and money market 28,982 55,887 78,888 141,522 624,064 308,744 1,238,087 time 185,860 54,674 57,997 28,170 4,873 331,574 total deposits 214,842 110,561 136,885 169,692 628,937 308,744 2,649,853 4,219,514 contingently convertible debt 146,740 146,740 junior subordinated debentures 49,470 49,470 other borrowings 9,820 9,820 other liabilities 107,502 107,502 minority interest in capital of consolidated affiliates 70,685 70,685 stockholders equity 541,948 541,948 total liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity $ $ 214,842 $ 110,561 $ 146,705 $ 169,692 $ 775,677 $ 358,214 $ 3,369,988 $ 5,145,679 off-balance sheet items: interest rate swap $ $ (50,000 ) $ $ $ $ 50,000 $ $ $ gap 1,629,413 255,080 17,850 (17,232 ) 58,256 453,659 404,222 (2,801,248 ) cumulative gap 1,629,413 1,884,493 1,902,343 1,885,111 1,943,367 2,397,026 2,801,248 (1) includes interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $15.9 million as of december 31, 2004. (2) principal cash flows are based on estimated principal payments as of december 31, 2004. (3) not stated column consists of nonaccrual loans of $14.3 million offset by unearned income of $18.4 million as of december 31, 2004. (4) maturity/repricing columns for fixed rate loans are based upon the amount and timing of related principal payments as of december 31, 2004. 74 market value of portfolio equity (mvpe) one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on the net present value of estimated cash flows from our assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet items, defined as our market value of portfolio equity (mvpe). the following table presents our mvpe exposure at december 31, 2004 and 2003, related to an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. (as restated) estimated estimated increase/ (decrease) in mvpe estimated net interest estimated increase/ (decrease) in net interest income change in interest rates (basis points) mvpe amount percent income amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2004: +200 $ 1,019,622 $ 20,290 2.0 % $ 326,744 $ 41,285 14.5 % +100 1,014,190 14,858 1.5 306,492 21,033 7.4 - 999,332 285,459 -100 936,599 (62,733 ) (6.3 ) 257,295 (28,164 ) (9.9 ) -200 876,445 (122,887 ) (12.3 ) 230,514 (54,945 ) (19.2 ) december 31, 2003: +200 $ 801,630 $ 38,377 5.0 % $ 236,305 $ 17,244 7.9 % +100 796,232 32,979 4.3 226,153 7,092 3.2 - 763,253 219,061 -100 791,797 28,544 3.7 214,233 (4,828 ) (2.2 ) -200 735,833 (27,420 ) (3.6 ) 210,769 (8,292 ) (3.8 ) the preceding table indicates that at december 31, 2004, in the event of an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates, our mvpe would be expected to increase or decrease accordingly. the market value calculations supporting the results in the preceding table are based on the present value of estimated cash flows using both market interest rates provided by independent broker/dealers and other publicly available sources that we deem reliable. these calculations do not contemplate any changes that we could make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. for example, although certain of our assets and liabilities may have similar maturity or re-pricing profiles, they may react to changes in market interest rates with different magnitudes. also, actual prepayment rates on loans and investments could vary substantially from the assumptions utilized in the model to derive the results as presented in the preceding table. further, a change in the shape of the forward yield curve could result in different mvpe estimations from those presented herein. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as indicative of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our mvpe exposure at december 31, 2004, increased slightly from december 31, 2003, primarily due to changes in the investment portfolio while staying well within our policy guidelines. in addition, our net interest income at risk remains well within policy limits. these estimates are highly assumption dependent and will change regularly as the company asset-liability structure changes and as different interest rate environments evolve. we expect to continue to manage our interest rate risk actively utilizing on and off-balance sheet strategies as appropriate. the simulation model also gives us the ability to simulate our net interest income using an interest rate forecast (simple simulation). in order to measure the sensitivity of our forecasted net interest income to changing interest rates utilizing the simple simulation methodology, both a rising and falling interest rate scenario are projected and compared to a base market interest rate forecast derived from the current yield curve. for the rising 75 and falling interest rate scenarios, the base market interest rate forecast is increased or decreased, as applicable, by 200 basis points in 12 equal increments over a one-year period. we perform net interest income and net income simulations in an interest rate environment whereby we shock the base rate immediately both up and down 300 basis points in 100 basis point increments. the combination of the ramp and shock scenarios provides us with additional information with respect to our sensitivity to interest rates and the impact on our net income under varied interest rate scenarios. our policy guidelines provide that the difference between a base market interest rate forecast scenario over the succeeding one-year period compared with the aforementioned rising and falling interest rate scenarios over the same time period should not result in net interest income degradation exceeding 25.0%. simulations as of december 31, 2004, indicated that we were well within these policy guidelines. interest rate risk is the most significant market risk impacting us. other types of market risk affecting us in the normal course of our business activities include foreign currency exchange risk, equity price risk, and basis risk. the impact resulting from these market risks is not considered significant, and no separate quantitative information concerning market rate and price exposure is presented herein. 76 factors that may affect future results our business faces significant risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face, and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. if a significant number of clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability, and financial condition would be adversely affected. as a lender, the largest risk we face is the possibility that a significant number of our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause losses in excess of our allowance for loan and lease losses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our experience and judgment. we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan and lease losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, or financial condition. because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile, and we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. many of our loans are made to companies in the early stages of development with negative cash flow and no established record of profitable operations. in many cases, repayment of the loan is dependent upon receipt of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others. collateral for many of the loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in our technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. we also make loans that are larger, relative to the revenues of the borrower, than those made by traditional small business lenders, so the impact of any single borrower default may be more significant to us. because of these characteristics, our level of nonperforming loans and loan charge-offs can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. changes in our level of nonperforming loans may require us to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest spread could have a material impact on our business and profitability. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to our clients and interest rates we receive on securities held in our investment portfolio. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, and unemployment. in addition, legislative changes could affect the manner in which we pay interest on deposits or other liabilities. for example, congress has for many years debated repealing a law that prohibits banks from paying interest rates on checking accounts. if this law were to be repealed, we would be subject to competitive pressure to pay interest on our clients checking accounts, which would negatively affect our interest rate spread. any material decline in our interest rate spread would have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. additionally, a portion of our loan fee income, a component of loan interest income, is predicated on the receipt of warrant assets. if we fail to continue to receive warrant assets our future interest margin may decline. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to start-up and emerging-growth companies could adversely affect our business, profitability, and growth prospects. 77 our strategy has focused on providing banking products and services to emerging-growth and corporate technology companies receiving financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capitalists, angels, and corporate investors. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive a second or third round of equity infusion from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which would have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies are the receptivity of the capital markets to initial public offerings or mergers and acquisitions of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, and general economic conditions in the technology and life science industries. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. our business is dependent upon access to funds on attractive terms. we derive our net interest income through lending or investing capital on terms that provide returns in excess of our costs for obtaining that capital. as a result, our credit ratings are important to our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs (or trigger obligations under certain existing borrowings and other contracts), or increase the interest rates we pay our depositors. further, our credit ratings and the terms upon which we have access to capital may be influenced by circumstances beyond our control, such as overall trends in the general market environment, perceptions about our creditworthiness or market conditions in the industries in which we focus. changes to our employee compensation structure could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit, and retain certain key employees. we account for our employee stock options in accordance with accounting principles board opinion no. 25 and related interpretations, which provide that any compensation expense relative to employee stock options be measured based on the intrinsic value of the stock options. as a result, when options are granted at fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant, as is our practice, we incur no compensation expense. in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment, which is a revision of sfas no. 123 and supersedes apb no. 25. sfas no. 123r requires us to record compensation expense for all employee stock grants. such expense will have a material impact on our results of operations. in october 2004, in an effort to align our option grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we significantly decreased the number of shares subject to options granted to our employees on a prospective basis. we may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other forms of equity compensation. our decision to reduce the number of option shares to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other future changes we may adopt in our employee compensation structures, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit, and retain certain key employees. we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. svb financial, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries are extensively regulated under federal and state law. these regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other clients, and the deposit insurance fund not for the benefit of stockholders or security holders. federal and state laws and regulations limit or otherwise affect the activities in which svb financial, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries may engage. a change in the applicable statutes, regulations, or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business and that of our subsidiaries. in addition, svb financial, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries are required to maintain certain minimum levels of capital. federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory action, as they deem appropriate, with respect to svb financial and silicon valley bank. svb alliant and svb securities, both broker-dealer subsidiaries, are regulated by the sec and the national association of securities dealers, inc. (nasd). violations of the stringent regulations governing the actions of a broker-dealer can result in the revocation of broker-dealer licenses, the imposition of censures or 78 fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion from the securities business of a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions can result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, and limitations on the activities of svb financial, silicon valley bank or their subsidiaries. these supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. warrant, venture capital fund, and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which is uncertain. we have historically obtained rights to acquire stock, in the form of equity warrants, in certain clients as part of negotiated credit facilities and for other services. in future periods we may not be able to ultimately realize gains from the sale of securities to third parties related to the exercise of warrants, or our realized gains may be materially less than the current level of fair value of derivative equity warrant assets and unrealized gains disclosed in this filing. we also have made investments in venture capital funds as well as direct equity investments in companies. the timing and amount of income, if any, from the disposition of client warrants, venture capital funds, and direct equity investments typically depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying portfolio companies, investor demand for initial public offerings, fluctuations in the market prices of the underlying common stock of these companies, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. in addition, our investments in venture capital funds and direct equity investments have lost value and could continue to lose value or become worthless, which would reduce our net income or could cause a net loss in any period. all of these factors are difficult to predict, particularly in the current economic environment. additionally, due to the nature of investing in private equity venture-backed technology and life science companies, it is likely that additional investments within our existing portfolio will become impaired. however, we are not in a position to know at the present time which specific investments, if any, are likely to be impaired or the extent or timing of individual impairments. therefore, we cannot predict future investment gains or losses with any degree of accuracy, and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients can cause loans to be paid off early, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering or are acquired or merge with another company. any significant reduction in our outstanding loans could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology sector and particularly in california, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, and profitability. if conditions deteriorate in the domestic or global economy, especially in the technology, life science, private equity, and premium wine industry niches, our business, growth, and profitability are likely to be materially adversely affected. a worsening of the global or u.s. economic slowdown would harm many of our clients. our clients may be particularly sensitive to disruptions in the growth of the technology sector of the u.s. economy. in addition, a substantial number of our clients are geographically concentrated in california, and adverse economic conditions in california could harm the businesses of a disproportionate number of our clients. to the extent that our clients underlying businesses are harmed, they are more likely to default on their loans. if we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we rely on experienced client relationship managers and on officers and employees with strong relationships with the venture capital community to generate new business. if a significant number of these employees were to leave us, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we believe that our employees frequently have opportunities for alternative employment with competing financial institutions and with our clients. 79 we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our historical levels of profitability in the face of sustained competitive pressures. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies, many of which are larger and have more capital than we do, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies, early stage growth companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges. we face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. we completed one acquisition in each of 2002 and 2001 and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we intend to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are strategic. there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully or integrate such acquisitions with our current business. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and/or contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. any such future acquisitions of other businesses, technologies, services, or products might require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all; and such financing, if available, might be dilutive. upon completion of an acquisition, we are faced with the challenges of integrating the operations, services, products, personnel, and systems of acquired companies into our business, which may divert management attention from ongoing business operations. in addition, acquisitions of new businesses may subject us to regulatory scrutiny. we cannot assure that we will be successful in integrating any acquired business effectively into the operations of our business. moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. the success of our acquisitions is dependent on the continued employment of several key employees. if acquired businesses do not meet projected revenue targets, or if certain key employees were to leave the businesses, we could conclude that the value of the businesses has decreased and that the related goodwill has been impaired. if we were to conclude that goodwill has been impaired that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. we offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. the secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintain our clients confidence in our online services. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. people generally are concerned with security and privacy on the internet and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with international operations. a component of our strategy is to expand internationally on a limited basis. expansion into international markets, albeit on a limited basis, requires management attention and resources. we have limited experience in 80 internationalizing our service, and we believe that many of our competitors are also undertaking expansion into foreign markets. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding into international markets. in addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations and to expand our international presence, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, regulatory requirements, legal uncertainty regarding liability, tariffs, and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, problems in collecting loan or other types of payments, political instability, seasonal reductions in business activity, and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely affect the success of our international operations. to the extent we continue to expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we could become subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. there can be no assurance that one or more of the factors discussed above will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and client demands. there is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products or services. a failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, or a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, or growth prospects. business interruptions due to natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our business. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, power failures, telecommunication loss, terrorist attacks, and acts of war. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or manmade, could cause severe destruction or interruption to our operations and as a result, our business could suffer serious harm. to mitigate these risks we have begun a phased business continuity program, with initial capabilities scheduled to become available during 2005 and additional work continuing throughout 2006. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. our management has determined that as of december 31, 2004, the company did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting based on criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission in internal control-integrated framework as a result of identified material weaknesses in the company internal control over financial reporting. specifically, the company did not have adequately designed internal controls in its financial reporting process related to the selection and application of generally accepted accounting principles in that (a) accounting policies, procedures and practices were not consistently developed, maintained or updated in a manner ensuring that financial statements were prepared in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, (b) these policies and procedures were not designed to consistently ensure the preparation and retention of adequate documentation to support key judgments made in connection with the selection and application of significant accounting policies within the company financial reporting process and (c) the company policies and procedures did not consistently provide for effective analysis, implementation, and documentation of new accounting pronouncements. in addition, the company did not maintain sufficient levels of appropriately qualified and trained personnel in its financial reporting processes resulting in management inability to consistently follow its internal control over financial reporting related to (x) the timely preparation of comprehensive documentation supporting management analysis of the appropriate accounting treatment for warrant derivatives or other non-routine or complex transactions, and (y) the review of such documentation by qualified internal staff, assisted by external 81 advisors as deemed necessary, to determine its completeness and the propriety of our conclusions. for a detailed description of these material weaknesses and the company remediation efforts and plans, see part ii, items 9a and 9b. these control deficiencies resulted in material errors in the company financial reporting which resulted in a restatement of the company financial statements for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004, as discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k/a. we have not yet fully remediated these material weaknesses. in response to these material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we are implementing additional controls and procedures and are incurring additional related expenses. we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken and are planning to take will sufficiently and satisfactorily remediate the identified material weaknesses in full. furthermore, we intend to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting and the implementation and testing of these efforts could result in increased cost and could divert management attention away from operating our business. if we are unable to remediate the identified material weaknesses discussed above, or if additional material weaknesses are identified in our internal control over financial reporting, our management will be unable to report favorably as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and/or our disclosure controls and procedures, and we could be required to further implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and potentially lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. we have received two delisting notices from nasdaq. our common stock and 7% cumulative trust preferred securities may become delisted from the nasdaq national market, which may have a material adverse effect on us, including an adverse impact on the liquidity of our common stock and on our ability to attract, recruit or retain key employees. on august 16, 2005 and november 15, 2005, we received notices from the staff of the nasdaq stock market stating that the company securities are subject to delisting because it was not in compliance with nasdaq marketplace rule 4310(c)(14) due to the delayed filing of its quarterly reports on form 10-q for the quarters ended june 30, 2005 and september 30, 2005. currently, both the company common stock and 7% cumulative trust preferred securities are traded on the nasdaq national market, under the symbols sivbe and sivoe, respectively. at an appeal hearing before a nasdaq listing qualifications panel on september 29, 2005, we submitted a plan to nasdaq that would bring us back in compliance with marketplace rule 4310(c)(14). the plan, which was subsequently approved by the nasdaq panel in november 2005, requires us to file our restated financials and our quarterly reports on form 10-q for the quarters ended june 30, 2005 and september 30, 2005 on or before december 28, 2005. we did not file either of these quarterly reports by the sec filing deadline on that date. once these reports have been filed, the company expects that it will be back in compliance with nasdaq marketplace rules, so long as it has not actually been delisted by nasdaq. while the company intends to continue its plan to achieve and sustain compliance as requested by nasdaq, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in implementing our plan as intended, or that our common stock will not be delisted by nasdaq. if our common stock is delisted, the only public market for our common stock is likely to be the pink sheets or the otc bulletin board. being delisted will likely significantly and adversely impact the liquidity of our common stock and significantly depress its value. additionally, if we are delisted, the reduced marketability of our common stock may have a material adverse affect on our ability to attract, recruit and retain key employees, especially since our employee compensation structure includes equity compensation. 82 report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group (formerly known as silicon valley bancshares): we have audited management restated assessment, included in the accompanying management report of internal control over financial reporting (as restated) (item 9a(b)), that svb financial group (formerly known as silicon valley bancshares) and subsidiaries (the company) did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, because of the effect of the material weaknesses identified in management restated assessment, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on management assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. management identified and included in its restated assessment the following material weaknesses as of december 31, 2004: the company did not have adequately designed internal controls in its financial reporting process related to the selection and application of generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). specifically, accounting policies, procedures and practices were not consistently developed, maintained or updated in a manner ensuring that financial statements were prepared in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. also, policies and procedures were not designed to consistently ensure the preparation and retention of adequate documentation to support key judgments made in connection with the selection and application of significant accounting policies 83 within the company financial reporting process. finally, the company policies and procedures did not consistently provide for effective analysis, implementation, and documentation of new accounting pronouncements. the company did not maintain sufficient levels of appropriately qualified and trained personnel in its financial reporting processes. as a result, the company did not establish internal control over financial reporting policies and procedures related to (a) the timely preparation of comprehensive documentation supporting management analysis of the appropriate accounting treatment for warrant derivative assets or other non-routine or complex transactions, and (b) the review of such documentation by qualified internal staff, assisted by external advisors as deemed necessary, to determine its completeness and the propriety of the company conclusions. these material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of the company previously issued consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004, and the interim consolidated financial information for each of the quarterly periods in 2004 and 2003. specifically, the aforementioned material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004 resulted in the following accounting errors: 1) derivative equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions were not reported as derivatives in accordance with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. specifically, the company failed to properly reflect the fair value of equity warrant assets with net settlement terms received during lending activity in its consolidated balance sheet, the change in fair value of the equity warrant assets in the income statement and the accretion of the grant date fair value of equity warrant assets to interest income as a yield adjustment. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company interest income, provision for loan and lease losses, non-interest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 2) initial non-refundable corporate finance fees were not reported in accordance with the provisions of staff accounting bulletin no. 104, revenue recognition . specifically, the company failed to defer recognition of initial upfront non-refundable retainers received upon execution of engagement letters to provide mergers and acquisitions advisory services until the completion of all contractual obligations pursuant to the terms of the engagement letters or upon receipt or notification of an engagement termination letter. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 3) non-refundable loan fees and costs associated with the company lending products and fees associated with letters of credit were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 91, accounting for nonrefundable fees and costs associated with originating or acquiring loans and initial direct costs of leases . specifically, the company failed to recognize net fee revenue in accordance with the appropriate straight-line or interest method, as prescribed by sfas no. 91, for net loan fee income obtained in connection with the extension of lending products. in addition, the company inappropriately recognized non-refundable loan fees it receives for factoring loans immediately rather than deferring and amortizing fees over the term of the facility granted. the company did not properly defer direct loan origination costs associated with originating certain loan products. in addition, the company misclassified fees on certain letters of credit as interest income rather than noninterest income on commitments where the probability of exercise was deemed remote. these misapplications of gaap resulted in a change to the company interest income, noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 4) certain investment securities that were readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less, were not reported as cash equivalents in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 95, statement of cash flows . this misapplication of gaap resulted in a reclassification in the company consolidated balance sheets of money market mutual fund investments and commercial paper investments from investment securities to federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities. this reclassification did not result in any change to the company revenue or net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 or for any quarterly period during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 5) current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable were not reflected net on the company balance sheets. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company other assets and other liabilities as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable should be netted as the company has the legal right of offset, as defined by fin no. 39, offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts . therefore, other assets and other liabilities have been restated to reflect the net current federal income taxes receivable or net current federal income taxes payable at each of these period ends. this correction of accounting resulted in a decrease to both other assets and other liabilities as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. 84 as stated in the fourth to the seventh paragraphs of management report on internal control over financial reporting (as restated) (item 9a(b)), management assessment of the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004 has been restated to reflect the impact of the aforementioned material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the restated consolidated balance sheets of svb financial group and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004. the aforementioned material weaknesses were considered in determining the nature, timing and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the restated 2004 consolidated financial statements, and this report does not affect our report dated march 14, 2005, except as to the restatement discussed in note 3, which is as of december 28, 2005, which expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. in our opinion, management restated assessment that the company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by coso. also, in our opinion, because of the effect of the material weaknesses described above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by coso. san francisco, california march 14, 2005, except as to the fourth to the seventh paragraphs of management report on internal control over financial reporting (as restated), which are as of december 28, 2005 85 item 8. consolidated financial statements and supplementary data report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group (formerly known as silicon valley bancshares): we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of svb financial group (formerly known as silicon valley bancshares) and subsidiaries (the company ) as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004. these consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the company management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. as described in note 3, the company has restated the accompanying consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso), and our report dated march 14, 2005, except as to the fourth to seventh paragraphs of management report on internal control over financial reporting (as restated), which are as of december 28, 2005, expressed an unqualified opinion on management assessment of, and an adverse opinion on the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004. san francisco, california march 14, 2005, except for note 3, which is as of december 28, 2005 86 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets (as restated) december 31, (dollars in thousands, except par value) 2004 2003 assets cash and due from banks $ 284,208 $ 252,521 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities 343,010 582,792 investment securities 2,074,967 1,530,411 loans, net of unearned income 2,308,588 1,987,146 allowance for loan and lease losses (37,613 ) (49,862 ) loans, net 2,270,975 1,937,284 premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization 14,641 14,999 goodwill 35,639 37,549 accrued interest receivable and other assets 122,239 112,854 total assets $ 5,145,679 $ 4,468,410 liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity liabilities: deposits: noninterest-bearing demand $ 2,649,853 $ 2,186,317 now 32,009 20,897 money market 1,206,078 1,080,559 time 331,574 379,068 total deposits 4,219,514 3,666,841 contingently convertible debt 146,740 145,797 junior subordinated debentures 49,470 49,118 other borrowings 9,820 17,961 other liabilities 107,502 79,996 total liabilities 4,533,046 3,959,713 commitments and contingencies minority interest in capital of consolidated affiliates 70,685 50,744 stockholders equity: preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding common stock, $0.001 par value, 150,000,000 shares authorized; 35,970,095 and 35,028,470 shares outstanding, respectively 36 35 additional paid-in capital 45,226 17,508 retained earnings 499,911 436,047 unearned compensation (4,512 ) (1,232 ) accumulated other comprehensive income 1,287 5,595 total stockholders equity 541,948 457,953 total liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity $ 5,145,679 $ 4,468,410 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 87 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated statements of income (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2004 2003 2002 interest income: loans $ 157,604 $ 143,586 $ 153,799 investment securities: taxable 70,651 39,295 37,933 non-taxable 5,004 6,248 6,894 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 8,421 8,024 11,517 total interest income 241,680 197,153 210,143 interest expense: deposits 8,423 9,083 16,229 other borrowings 2,968 4,370 1,647 total interest expense 11,391 13,453 17,876 net interest income 230,289 183,700 192,267 (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses (10,289 ) (9,892 ) 5,873 net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses 240,578 193,592 186,394 noninterest income: client investment fees 26,919 23,991 30,344 corporate finance fees 22,024 12,204 10,872 letter of credit and standby letter of credit income 9,994 8,912 10,258 deposit service charges 13,538 13,202 9,072 gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 16,746 20,200 11,815 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 5,198 (9,614 ) (10,679 ) credit card fees 2,817 3,431 955 other 9,726 8,505 8,789 total noninterest income 106,962 80,831 71,426 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 153,897 121,653 103,505 net occupancy 18,134 17,638 20,391 professional services 17,068 13,677 18,385 furniture and equipment 12,403 11,289 9,562 business development and travel 9,718 8,692 8,426 correspondent bank fees 5,340 4,343 2,835 data processing services 3,647 4,288 4,360 telephone 3,367 3,187 3,123 postage and supplies 3,255 2,601 3,190 tax credit fund amortization 2,480 2,704 2,963 impairment of goodwill 1,910 63,000 provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 1,549 2,504 (3,338 ) trust preferred securities distributions 1,595 3,300 other 9,062 7,725 6,624 total noninterest expense 241,830 264,896 183,326 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 105,710 9,527 74,494 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (3,090 ) 7,689 7,767 income before income tax expense 102,620 17,216 82,261 income tax expense 38,754 4,174 27,761 net income $ 63,866 $ 13,042 $ 54,500 earnings per common share-basic $ 1.81 $ 0.36 $ 1.24 earnings per common share-diluted $ 1.70 $ 0.35 $ 1.21 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 88 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated statements of comprehensive income (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 net income $ 63,866 $ 13,042 $ 54,500 other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax: change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investment securities: unrealized holding gains (losses) (9,600 ) (11,347 ) 9,507 related tax effect 4,010 4,683 (3,915 ) reclassification adjustment for (gains) losses included in net income 2,202 (1,447 ) 30 related tax effect (920 ) 597 (12 ) other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax (4,308 ) (7,514 ) 5,610 comprehensive income $ 59,558 $ 5,528 $ 60,110 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 89 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated statements of stockholders equity (as restated) common stock additional paid-in retained unearned accumulated other comprehensive (dollars in thousands) shares amount capital earnings compensation income total balance at december 31, 2001, as previously reported 45,390,007 $ 45 $ 196,143 $ 423,252 $ (1,600 ) $ 9,675 $ 627,515 restatement adjustments (note 3) 11,709 (2,176 ) 9,533 balance at december 31, 2001, as restated 45,390,007 45 196,143 434,961 (1,600 ) 7,499 637,048 common stock issued under employee benefit plans, net of restricted stock cancellations 722,464 1 9,112 151 9,264 income tax benefit from stock options exercised and vesting of restricted stock 4,113 4,113 net income 54,500 54,500 amortization of unearned compensation 797 797 net change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale investment securities 5,610 5,610 common stock repurchases (5,534,378 ) (5 ) (109,389 ) (109,394 ) balance at december 31, 2002, as restated 40,578,093 41 99,979 489,461 (652 ) 13,109 601,938 common stock issued under employee benefit plans, net of restricted stock cancellations 931,684 1 14,307 (1,712 ) 12,596 income tax benefit from stock options exercised and vesting of restricted stock 6,736 6,736 net income 13,042 13,042 amortization of unearned compensation 1,132 1,132 net change in unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment securities (7,514 ) (7,514 ) warrant issuance proceeds 17,412 17,412 cost of convertible debt note hedge (39,297 ) (39,297 ) real estate investment trust dividend (2 ) (2 ) common stock repurchases (6,481,307 ) (7 ) (81,629 ) (66,454 ) (148,090 ) balance at december 31, 2003, as restated 35,028,470 35 17,508 436,047 (1,232 ) 5,595 457,953 common stock issued under employee benefit plans, net of restricted stock cancellations 1,241,625 1 30,433 (5,650 ) 24,784 income tax benefit from stock options exercised and vesting of restricted stock 9,863 9,863 net income 63,866 63,866 amortization of unearned compensation 2,370 2,370 net change in unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment securities (4,308 ) (4,308 ) real estate investment trust dividend (2 ) (2 ) common stock repurchases (300,000 ) (12,578 ) (12,578 ) balance at december 31, 2004, as restated 35,970,095 $ 36 $ 45,226 $ 499,911 $ (4,512 ) $ 1,287 $ 541,948 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 90 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated statements of cash flows (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 cash flows from operating activities: net income $ 63,866 $ 13,042 $ 54,500 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses (10,289 ) (9,892 ) 5,873 changes in fair values of derivatives 1,939 (4,135 ) 5,507 (gains) losses on investment securities, net (5,198 ) 9,614 10,679 depreciation and amortization 8,779 7,610 7,964 impairment of goodwill 1,910 63,000 minority interest 3,090 (7,689 ) (7,767 ) tax benefits of stock compensation 9,863 6,736 4,113 stock-based compensation 3,563 1,132 797 amortization of deferred warrant related loan fees (5,656 ) (6,621 ) (9,228 ) deferred income tax expense (benefit) 5,572 (15,804 ) 2,680 changes in other assets and liabilities: (increase) decrease in accrued interest receivable (3,370 ) (211 ) 6,095 (increase) in accounts receivable (7,317 ) (2,258 ) (930 ) (increase) decrease in income tax receivable 4,646 (4,746 ) 17,141 increase in accrued retention, incentive plans and other compensation benefits payable 17,338 15,021 2,774 provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 1,549 2,504 (3,338 ) other, net 4,051 8,982 5,665 net cash provided by operating activities 94,336 76,285 102,525 cash flows from investing activities: purchases of investment securities (1,431,653 ) (1,724,347 ) (1,419,801 ) proceeds from sales of investment securities 162,011 106,747 57,087 proceeds from maturities and pay downs of investment securities 729,159 1,225,052 1,545,101 net decrease (increase) in loans (341,652 ) 77,380 (345,477 ) proceeds from recoveries of charged-off loans 14,236 20,363 22,175 purchases of premises and equipment (8,421 ) (4,723 ) (4,131 ) payment for acquisitions, net of cash acquired (4,169 ) net cash used by investing activities (876,320 ) (299,528 ) (149,215 ) cash flows from financing activities: net increase in deposits 552,673 230,791 55,273 decrease in other borrowings, net (8,141 ) (9,333 ) (42,000 ) capital contributions from minority interest participants, net of distributions 16,851 15,275 22,650 proceeds from issuance of common stock 25,084 14,364 9,769 repurchase of common stock (12,578 ) (148,090 ) (109,394 ) redemption of 8.25% trust preferred securities (40,000 ) proceeds from issuance of 7.0% junior subordinated debentures, net of issuance costs 47,839 proceeds from issuance of convertible notes and warrants, net of issuance costs of convertible note hedge 123,340 net cash (used) provided by financing activities 573,889 234,186 (63,702 ) net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (208,095 ) 10,943 (110,392 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 835,313 824,370 934,762 cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 627,218 $ 835,313 $ 824,370 supplemental disclosures: cash paid during the period for: interest paid $ 11,305 $ 13,084 $ 18,487 income taxes paid $ 25,307 $ 17,802 $ 6,812 noncash items during the period: increase in deferred rent liability and accounts receivable related to landlord non-cash incentives $ 6,992 $ $ increase in deferred rent liability and deferred rent asset related to rent abatement regarding the renewal of the lease of the headquarters property 2,255 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 91 1. nature of business nature of business svb financial group (formerly known as silicon valley bancshares) (individually referred to herein as svb financial ) and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the company or svb financial group) offer clients financial products and services through four lines of banking and financial services (see note 25 - segment reporting). svb financial is a bank holding company and a financial holding company whose principal subsidiary is silicon valley bank (the bank), a california-chartered bank, founded in 1983, and headquartered in santa clara, california. the bank serves more than 10,000 clients across the country, through its 25 regional offices in the united states, a subsidiary in england and one in india. the bank has 12 offices throughout california and operates regional offices across the country in arizona, colorado, georgia, illinois, massachusetts, minnesota, new york, north carolina, oregon, pennsylvania, texas, virginia, and washington. the bank serves clients in all stages of maturity ranging from emerging-growth companies to established corporate companies in the technology and life science markets and the premium wine industry. the company defines emerging-growth clients as companies in the start-up or early stages of their lifecycle; these companies tend to be privately held and backed by venture capital; they generally have few employees, are primarily engaged in research and development, have brought relatively few products or services to market, and have no or little revenue. by contrast, the company defines established corporate clients as companies that tend to be more mature; these companies may be publicly traded, and more established in the markets in which they participate. additionally, merger, acquisition, private placement, and corporate partnering services are provided through the company wholly-owned investment banking subsidiary, svb alliant, whose offices are in california and massachusetts. 92 2. summary of significant accounting policies use of estimates and assumptions the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. a material estimate that is particularly susceptible to possible change in the near term relates to the determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses. an estimate of possible changes or a range of possible changes cannot be made. principles of consolidation and presentation the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of svb financial group and its majority-owned subsidiaries that are not considered variable interest entities (vies) and all vies for which the company is the primary beneficiary. all significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. the effects of eliminations of revenues and expenses due to intercompany transactions between majority-owned subsidiaries and consolidated vies are not attributed to noncontrolling interests in the vies. if the company owns at least 20%, but less than 50% voting interest and has the ability to exert significant influence over the financial operations and policies, of an affiliate corporation, it accounts for the investment using the equity method. if the company owns less than 20% voting interest of a company, it generally carries the investment at cost, except marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale securities, which the company carries at fair value with changes in fair value included in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes. if the company owns 5%, but less than 50%, in a limited partnership, it generally accounts for the investment using the equity method. if the company owns less than 5% in a limited partnership, it carries the investment at cost. assets accounted for under the equity and cost method are included in investment securities. in january 2003, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued interpretation no. 46, consolidation of variable interest entities (fin 46) and, in december 2003, issued revised interpretation no. 46, consolidation of variable interest entities (fin 46r), which replaced fin 46. this set forth the rules of consolidation for a certain type of entity, a vie, used to conduct activities or hold assets that either (1) has an insufficient amount of equity to carry out its principal activities without additional subordinated financial support, (2) has a group of equity owners that are unable to make significant decisions about its activities, or (3) has a group of equity owners that do not have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to receive returns generated by its operations. an enterprise variable interest arises from contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity, which change with fluctuations in the entity net asset value. effective for vies formed after january 31, 2003, and effective for all existing vies on december 31, 2003, the company consolidates a vie if it is the primary beneficiary because it will absorb a majority of the entity expected losses, receive a majority of the entity expected residual returns, or both. see note 28 variable interest entities adoption of fin 46r. historically, the company aggregated its allowance for loan and lease losses and its allowance for unfunded credit commitments and reflected the aggregate allowance in its allowance for loan and lease losses (alll) balance. commencing in the fourth quarter of 2004, the company reflected its allowance for loan and lease losses in its alll balance and its allowance for unfunded credit commitments in other liabilities. these reclassifications were also made to prior periods balance sheets to conform to current period presentations. additionally, the company reclassified expense related to the alll to provision for loan losses and expense related to changes in the allowance for unfunded credit commitments into noninterest expense for all periods presented. such reclassifications had no effect on the company results of operations or stockholders equity. cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, cash balances due from banks, federal funds sold, and securities purchased under agreement to resell. for purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the company considers cash equivalents to be highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash with original maturity or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less. 93 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments as reported in the consolidated balance sheet include interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $11.4 million and $1.8 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. reverse repurchase agreements are collateralized by government and government agency securities, mortgage-backed securities rated single a or better, and a1 rated commercial paper. company policy allows segregated customer safekeeping of assets due to the overnight tenor of the aforementioned transactions and the company regularly monitors the suitability and market value of collateral underlying the transactions. investment securities fixed income securities fixed income investment securities are classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale, trading, or non-marketable upon purchase or acquisition. securities purchased with the ability and positive intent to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and are accounted for at historical cost, adjusted for the amortization of premiums or the accretion of discounts to maturity, where appropriate. unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities become realized and are charged against earnings when it is determined that an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. the company did not have any investments in the held-to-maturity portfolio at december 31, 2004 or 2003. securities acquired and held principally for the purpose of sale in the near term are classified as trading and are accounted for at fair value. unrealized gains and losses resulting from fair value adjustments on trading securities, as well as gains and losses realized upon the sale of investment securities, are included in noninterest income. the company did not have a trading portfolio at december 31, 2004 or 2003. securities that are held to meet investment objectives such as interest rate risk and liquidity management, and which may be sold by the company as needed to implement management strategies are classified as available-for-sale and are accounted for at fair value. unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, after applicable taxes, are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a separate component of stockholders equity, until realized. the company considers a number of factors in determining other-than-temporary impairment. an initial indicator of impairment for both marketable equity and debt securities is a sustained decline in market price below the amount recorded for that investment. the company also considers the following factors: the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost; the reasons for the decline in market price, whether industry-wide or issuer-specific; changes in the regulatory, economic or technological environment of the issuer industry; changes in the general market condition of either the geographic area or the issuer industry; the issuer financial condition, capital strength and near-term prospects, as well as its ability to make timely future payments; any changes in agencies ratings and any potential actions; and the company investment horizon. market valuations represent the current fair value of a security at a specified point in time and do not represent the risk of repayment of the principal if a security is held to maturity. gains and losses on securities are only realized upon the sale of the security prior to maturity, whereas a credit downgrade represents an increased level of risk of other-than-temporary impairment, and will only be recognized if the company assesses the downgrade to challenge the issuer ability to service the debt and to repay the principal at contractual maturity. amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on debt securities are included in interest income over the contractual terms of the underlying investment securities replicating the effective interest method. 94 non-marketable equity securities the company accounting for investments in non-marketable equity securities depends on several factors, including its level of ownership/control and the legal structure of its subsidiary making the investment. as further described below, the company bases its accounting for such securities on: (i) investment company fair value accounting, (ii) equity method accounting, or (iii) cost method accounting. investment company fair value the company non-marketable equity securities recorded pursuant to investment company fair value accounting consist of its investments in the following funds: direct equity venture fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp, which makes equity investments in privately held companies; funds of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, which make investments in venture capital funds; and venture debt fund, partners for growth, lp, which provides financing to companies in the form of structured loans and equity investments. a summary of the company ownership interests in the investments held under investment company fair value accounting is presented in the following table: company ownership in general partner company ownership% silicon valley bancventures inc.(1) 100 % svb strategic investors, llc(2) 100 % svb strategic investors ii, llc(2) 100 % partners for growth, llc(3) company ownership in limited partner company ownership% silicon valley bancventures , lp(1) 10.7 % svb strategic investors fund, lp(2) 11.1 % svb strategic investors fund ii, lp(2) 14.4 % partners for growth, lp(3) 53.2 % note entity results of operations and financial condition are included in the consolidated financial statements of svb financial group net of minority interest. (1) the general partner, silicon valley bancventures, inc. is owned and controlled by svb financial and has an ownership interest of 10.7% in silicon valley bancventures, lp. the limited partners do not have substantive participating or kick-out rights. therefore, silicon valley bancventures, lp is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. (2) the general partner of svb strategic investors fund, lp (sif i), svb strategic investors, llc, is owned and controlled by svb financial and has an ownership interest of 11.1%. the general partner of svb strategic investors fund ii, lp (sif ii), svb strategic investors ii, llc, is owned and controlled by svb financial and has an ownership interest of 14.4%. the limited partners of these funds do not have substantive participating or kick-out rights. therefore, sif i and ii are consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the venture capital fund investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. (3) the general partner of partners for growth, lp partners for growth, llc, is not owned or controlled by svb financial. the limited partners of this fund have substantive kick-out rights by which the general partner may be removed without cause by simple majority vote of the limited partners. svb financial has an ownership interest of 53.2% in partners for growth, lp. accordingly, the fund is consolidated and any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. under investment company accounting, the investments are carried at estimated fair value as determined by the fund respective general partner. the valuation generally remains at cost until such time that there is significant evidence of a change in value based upon consideration of the relevant market conditions, offering prices, operating results, financial conditions, exit strategies, and other pertinent information. thus, any gains or losses resulting from changes in the estimated fair value of the investments are recorded as investment gains or losses in the company consolidated net income. the portion of any gains or losses attributable to the limited partners is reflected as minority interest in net income (loss) of consolidated affiliates and adjusts svb financial group consolidated net income to reflect its percentage ownership. 95 equity method the company equity method non-marketable equity securities consist of an investment in a venture debt fund and several qualified affordable housing tax credit funds. the venture debt fund investment is in gold hill venture lending 03, lp, which provides financing to privately-held companies in the form of loans and equity investments. svb financial group has direct and indirect interests totaling 9.8% in gold hill venture lending 03, lp. the company total interest in gold hill venture lending 03, lp exceeds the 5% ownership interest threshold established by eitf topic d-46 for cost method accounting. accordingly, this limited partnership investment is accounted for under the equity method. thus, the company recognizes its proportionate share of the results of operations of each equity method investee in its results of operations. the company invests in several qualified affordable housing projects, which provide it benefits in the form of tax credits. since its limited partnership investments in qualified affordable housing projects do not qualify for the effective yield method, under eitf 94-1, accounting for tax benefits resulting from investments in affordable housing projects (eitf 94-1) the company accounts for such investments under the equity method in accordance with the provisions of the aicpa statement of position (sop) 78-9, accounting for investments in real estate ventures. the company reviews these investments at least quarterly for possible other than temporary impairment. the company review typically includes an analysis of facts and circumstances for each investment, the expectations of the investment future cash flows and capital needs, variability of its business and the company exit strategy. it reduces the investment value when it considers declines in value to be other than temporary. it recognizes the estimated loss as a loss on investment securities, a component of noninterest income. cost method the company cost method non-marketable equity securities and related accounting policies are described as follows: in accordance with the provisions of accounting principles board opinion no. 18 the equity method of accounting for investments in common stock (apb no. 18), equity securities, such as preferred or common stock in privately-held companies in which the company holds an ownership interest of less than 20% and in which it does not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investees operating and financial policies, are accounted for under the cost method. these non-marketable equity securities also include certain investments made for various other purposes, such as shares purchased pursuant to regulatory requirements (for example, federal reserve bank and federal home loan bank stock). in accordance with the provisions of emerging issue task force (eitf) topic d-46, accounting for limited partnership investments (eitf topic d-46), investments in limited partnerships in which the company holds an ownership interest of less than 5% and in which it does not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investees operating and financial policies, are accounted for under the cost method. these non-marketable equity securities include investments in venture capital funds. as stated above, the company records these investments at cost and recognizes as income, distributions or returns received from net accumulated earnings of the investee since the date of acquisition. the company share of net accumulated earnings of the investee after the date of investment are recognized in consolidated net income only to the extent distributed by the investee. distributions or returns received in excess of accumulated earnings are considered a return of investment and are recorded as reductions in the cost basis of the investment. the company reviews these assets at least quarterly for possible other than temporary impairment. the company review typically includes an analysis of facts and circumstances of each investment, the expectations of the investment future cash flows and capital needs, variability of its business and the company exit strategy. it reduces the investment value when it considers declines in value to be other than temporary. it recognizes the estimated loss as a loss on investment securities, a component of noninterest income. gains or losses on cost method investment securities that result from a portfolio company being acquired by a publicly traded company are marked to market when the acquisition occurs. the resulting gains or losses are recognized into consolidated net income on that date in accordance with eitf no. 91-5, nonmonetary exchange of cost-method investments (eitf 91-5). further fluctuations in the market value of these equity securities are excluded from consolidated net income and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, (oci), a component of stockholders equity. upon the sale of these equity securities to a third party, gains and losses, which are measured from the acquisition value, are recognized in the company consolidated net income. 96 loans loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned loan fees. unearned loan fees reflect deferred loan origination and commitment fees net of deferred loan origination costs. the company often obtains equity warrants to purchase a position in a client company stock in consideration for providing credit facilities. the grant date fair value of these equity warrant assets is required to be deferred as unearned income and recognized as an interest income adjustment of loan yield as prescribed by statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 91, accounting for nonrefundable fees and costs associated with originating or acquiring loans and initial direct costs of leases (sfas no. 91). the net amount of unearned loan fees is amortized into loan interest income over the contractual terms of the underlying loans and commitments using the interest method, adjusted for actual loan prepayment experience, or the straight-line method, as applicable. allowance for loan and lease losses the allowance for loan and lease losses is established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense to provide for credit risk. the company allowance for loan and lease losses is established for loan losses that are probable but not yet realized. the process of anticipating loan losses is imprecise. the company applies the following evaluation process to its loan portfolio to estimate the required allowance for loan and lease losses: the company maintains a systematic process for the evaluation of individual loans and pools of loans for inherent risk of loan losses. on a quarterly basis, each loan in the company portfolio is assigned a credit risk rating. credit risk-ratings are assigned on a scale of 1 to 10, with 1 representing loans with a low risk of nonpayment, 9 representing loans with the highest risk of nonpayment, and 10 representing loans, which have been charged-off. this credit risk-rating evaluation process includes, but is not limited to, consideration of such factors as payment status, the financial condition of the borrower, borrower compliance with loan covenants, underlying collateral values, potential loan concentrations, and general economic conditions. the company policies require a committee of senior management to review, at least quarterly, credit relationships that exceed specific dollar values. the company review process evaluates the appropriateness of the credit risk rating and allocation of the allowance for loan and lease losses, as well as other account management functions. in addition, the company management receives and approves an analysis for all impaired loans, as defined by sfas no. 114, accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan (sfas no. 114). the allowance for loan and lease losses is allocated based on a formula allocation for similarly risk-rated loans, or for specific risk issues, which suggest a probable loss factor exceeding the formula allocation for a specific loan or for individually impaired loans as determined by sfas no. 114. the company evaluation process is designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses. the company assesses the risk of losses inherent in the loan portfolio by utilizing modeling techniques. for this purpose the company has developed a statistical model based on historical loan loss migration to estimate an appropriate allowance for outstanding loan balances. in addition, the company applies a macro allocation to the results of the aforementioned model to ascertain the total allowance for loan and lease losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of the allowance for loan and lease losses relies, to a great extent, on the judgment and experience of the company management. 97 allowance for unfunded credit commitments the company reserves for the possibility of an unfunded loan commitment being funded and subsequently being charged off. each quarter, every unfunded client credit commitment is allocated to a credit risk-rating category in accordance with each client credit risk rating. the company uses the historical loan loss factors described above to calculate the possible loan loss experience if unfunded credit commitments are funded. separately, the company uses historical trends to calculate a probability of an unfunded credit commitment being funded. the company applies the loan funding probability factor to risk-factor adjusted unfunded commitments by credit risk-rating to derive the reserve for unfunded loan commitments. the unfunded credit commitments reserve may also include certain macro allocations as deemed appropriate by the company management. nonaccrual loans sfas no. 114 and sfas no. 118, accounting by creditors for impairment of a loan income recognition and disclosures require the company to measure impairment of a loan based upon the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan effective interest rate, except that as a practical expedient, the company may measure impairment based on the loan observable market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. a loan is considered impaired when, based upon currently known information, it is deemed probable that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the agreement. loans are placed on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days past due as to principal or interest payments (unless the principal and interest are well secured and in the process of collection); or when the company has determined, based upon currently known information, that the timely collection of principal or interest is doubtful; or when the loans otherwise become impaired under the provisions of sfas no. 114. when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued interest is reversed against interest income and the loan is accounted for on the cash or cost recovery method thereafter until qualifying for return to accrual status. generally, a loan will be returned to accrual status when all delinquent principal and interest become current in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement and full collection of the principal and interest appears probable. standby letters of credit in november 2002, fasb issued fasb interpretation no. 45, guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others (fin 45), which requires that, for guarantees within the scope of fin 45 issued or amended after december 31, 2002, a liability for the fair values of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee is to be recognized. the liability recognized at the inception of the guarantee is equivalent to the premium or fee received. among the types of guarantee contracts to which the provisions of fin 45 apply are financial standby letters of credit and performance standby letters of credit. effective january 1, 2003, the company adopted the recognition and measurement provisions of fin 45. premises and equipment premises and equipment are reported at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the terms of the related leases, whichever is shorter. the maximum estimated useful lives by asset classification are as follows: leasehold improvements 10 years furniture and equipment 3 years computer software 3 years computer hardware 3 years vehicles 3 years the company capitalizes the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use in accordance to sop 98-1, accounting for costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use. capitalized computer software costs consist of developed software, purchased software licenses and implementation costs. costs capitalized at december 31, 2004 and 2003, amounted to $4.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively. depreciation expense for computer software developed or obtained for internal use was $3.9 million, $3.2 million and $3.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. 98 for property and equipment that is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting gain or loss is included in noninterest expense in consolidated net income. the company had no capitalized lease obligations at december 31, 2004 and 2003. business combinations the company accounts for business combinations in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 141, business combinations, which requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. sfas no. 141 also specifies the criteria that intangible assets acquired in a purchase method business combination must meet to be recognized and reported apart from goodwill. goodwill goodwill, which arises from the purchase price exceeding the assigned value of the net assets of an acquired business, represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements being acquired. the value of goodwill is supported by the free cash flows from the acquired businesses. a decline in earnings as a result of a decline in mergers and acquisitions transaction volume or a decline in the valuations of mergers and acquisitions clients could lead to impairment, which would be recorded as a write-down in the company consolidated net income. on an annual basis or as circumstances dictate, the company management reviews goodwill and evaluates events or other developments that may indicate impairment in the carrying amount. the company conducts its reviews of goodwill in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142, which is based primarily on forecasted discounted cash flow analyses. the evaluation methodology for potential impairments is inherently complex and involves significant management judgment in the use of estimates and assumptions. the company evaluates impairment using a two-step process. first, the company compares the aggregate fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. if the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, no impairment exists. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the company compares the implied fair value, defined below, of the reporting unit goodwill with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, then goodwill impairment is recognized by writing goodwill down to the implied fair value. the company primarily uses a discounted cash flow approach to value the reporting unit being evaluated for goodwill impairment. these estimates involve many assumptions, including expected results of operations, assumed discounts rates, and assumed growth rates for the reporting units. the discount rate used is based on standard industry practice, taking into account the expected equity risk premium, the size of the business, and the probability of the reporting unit achieving its financial forecasts. the implied fair value is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the unit was the purchase price. events that may indicate goodwill impairment include significant or adverse changes in results of operations of the business, economic or political climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, and a more likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. fee-based services revenue recognition investment banking income contingent fees earned for mergers and acquisitions advisory services are recognized, in accordance with the united states securities and exchange commission staff accounting bulletin (sab) no. 104 revenue recognition (sab no. 104), when the company has fully completed its contractual and regulatory obligations related to its client service engagements. the company recognizes initial non-refundable retainer fees over the term of the contract if a term is specified, otherwise, the fee is recognized at the same time as the related contingent advisory fee, or when either the company or its client terminates the contract. client investment income revenues related to client investment management fees are recognized as earned. reimbursement of out of pocket expenses the company receives reimbursement of out of pocket expenses related to lending and other products offered. the reimbursements of these expenses are included in noninterest income. 99 income taxes income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. the company federal and state income tax provisions are based upon taxes payable for the current year as well as current year changes in deferred taxes related to temporary differences between the tax basis and financial statement balances of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements at currently enacted income tax rates applicable to the period in which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized. as changes in tax laws or rates are enacted, deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted through the provision for income taxes. the company files a consolidated federal income tax return, and consolidated, combined, or separate state income tax returns as appropriate. stock-based compensation the company has elected to follow apb opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees (apb no. 25), and related interpretations, to account for its employee stock options rather than the alternative fair value accounting allowed by sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation (sfas no. 123) as amended by sfas no. 148, accounting for stock-based compensation transition and disclosure (sfas no. 148). apb no. 25 provides that the compensation expense relative to the company employee stock options be measured based on the intrinsic value of the stock option. sfas no. 123 as amended by sfas no. 148 requires those companies that continue to follow apb no. 25 to provide pro forma disclosure of the impact of applying the fair value method of sfas no. 123. the company accounts for stock issued to non-employees in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 123 and fasb interpretation no. 44, accounting for certain transactions involving stock compensation (fin 44). the company records compensation expense for the cost of restricted stock and restricted stock units by amortizing the grant date fair value of such grants over their vesting period. compensation expense related to the employee stock purchase plan (espp), used in determining the pro forma net income and basic and diluted earnings per share amounts, is calculated in accordance with the provisions of fasb technical bulletin no.97-1, accounting under statement 123 for certain employee stock purchase plans with a look-back option. if compensation cost related to both the company stock option awards to employees and directors and to the espp had been determined under the fair value method prescribed under sfas no. 123, the company net income, basic earnings per share, and diluted earnings per share would have been the pro forma amounts shown below for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002: (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2004 2003 2002 net income as reported $ 63,866 $ 13,042 $ 54,500 add: stock-based compensation expense included in reported net income, net of tax 1,620 772 647 less: total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method, net of tax (21,388 ) (19,780 ) (18,672 ) pro forma net income $ 44,098 $ (5,966 ) $ 36,475 earnings per common share basic: as reported $ 1.81 $ 0.36 $ 1.24 pro forma $ 1.25 $ (0.17 ) $ 0.83 earnings per common share diluted: as reported $ 1.70 $ 0.35 $ 1.21 pro forma $ 1.22 $ (0.17 ) $ 0.85 earnings per share the company calculates earnings (loss) per common share in accordance to sfas no. 128, earnings per share (sfas no. 128). sfas no. 128 requires the presentation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for companies with potential common shares, such as warrants and options. accordingly, basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed 100 using the weighted average number of common stock shares outstanding during the period. diluted earnings (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted average number of common stock shares and potential common shares outstanding during the period. potential common shares consist of contingently convertible debt (using the treasury stock method), and stock options. common stock equivalent shares are excluded from the computation if the effect is antidilutive. the dilutive effect of the company contingently convertible debt is included in earnings per share in accordance with the provisions of eitf 04-8 the effect of contingently convertible instruments on diluted earnings per share (eitf 04-8). additionally, all prior period earnings per share calculations were revised to conform to the provisions of eitf 04-8. (see note 5 - earnings per share). segment reporting the company is organized into four lines of banking and financial services for management reporting: commercial banking, svb capital, svb alliant, and private client services and other. these operating segments are strategic units that offer different services to different clients. they are managed separately because each segment appeals to different markets and, accordingly, requires different strategies. the results of operating segments are based on the company internal profitability reporting process (see note 25. segment reporting). derivative financial instruments the company accounts for derivative instruments in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended (sfas no. 133). sfas no. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, and requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. sfas no. 133 was amended by sfas no. 138, accounting for certain derivative instruments and hedging activities (sfas no. 138) and sfas no. 149, amendment of statement 133 on derivative instruments and hedging activities (sfas no. 149). sfas no. 138 and sfas no. 149 amended and provided clarification on the accounting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities under sfas no. 133. sfas no. 149 has been applied prospectively and was effective for contracts entered into or modified after june 30, 2003. sfas no. 149 was applicable to existing contracts and new contracts entered into after june 30, 2003, if those contracts relate to forward purchases or sales of when-issued securities or other securities that do not yet exist. the adoption of sfas no. 149 did not have a material impact on the company results of operations or financial condition. the accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative depends on whether the derivative instrument is designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity. fair value hedges for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge and if the fair value hedge is fully effective, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument would offset the loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. any difference that does arise would be the effect of hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognized in earnings. if the derivative instrument meets the qualification for the short-cut treatment, as defined by sfas no. 133, in which case the period ended gross positive fair values are recorded in other assets and gross negative fair values are recorded in other liabilities and an offsetting amount is recorded to the asset or liability being hedged (see note 16. derivative financial instruments). cash flow hedges for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, or for foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument are recognized in oci. these amounts are reclassified from oci and recognized in earnings when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur. the result of any hedge ineffectiveness is recognized immediately in earnings. the company has not designated any derivatives as cash flow hedges in 2004, 2003 or 2002. derivatives the company defines derivatives as derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment as defined by sfas no. 133, or derivatives that have not been designated in a hedging relationship. changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment or are not designated in a hedging relationship, are recognized immediately in earnings. 101 derivative equity warrant assets for shares of private and public companies are recorded at fair value on the grant date and adjusted to fair value on a quarterly basis through consolidated net income. the company implemented a 2001 interpretation of the sfas no. 133, as it applies to derivative equity warrants with net settlement terms in private and public client companies. in general, derivative equity warrants that the company holds entitle it to buy a specific number of shares of stock at a specific price over a specific time period. certain warrants obtained by the company include contingent provisions which set the underlying number of shares or strike price based upon certain future events. for example, the number of shares exercisable for some warrants is contingent upon the related lending facility, such as the extent of utilization of the facility, including draw frequency or amount. or, in some cases, the underlying strike price of some warrants may be contingent upon the share price of a subsequent future round of equity financing of the issuer. the company warrant agreements contain net share settlement provisions, which permit the issuing company to deliver to the company, upon the company exercise of the warrant, the amount of shares with a current fair value equal to the net gain of the warrant agreement (sometimes described as a cashless exercise). because the company warrant agreements contain such net share settlement provisions, its equity warrant assets are required to be accounted for as derivative instruments under sfas no. 133 as of the third quarter of 2001. under this accounting treatment required by sfas no. 133, equity warrant assets in private and public companies which include net share settlement provisions, held by svb financial group, are recorded at fair value and are classified as derivative assets, a component of other assets, on svb financial group balance sheet at the time they are obtained. the grant date fair values of these equity warrant assets are deemed to be loan fees and are required to be recognized as an adjustment of loan yield through loan interest income, as prescribed by sfas no. 91. similar to other loan fees, the yield adjustment related to grant date fair value of equity warrant assets, received directly in connection with the issuance of a credit facility, is recognized over the life of that credit facility. any changes from the grant date fair value of a derivative equity warrant will be recognized as increases or decreases to derivative assets on the company balance sheet and as gains or losses on derivative investments, net, in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. if the warrants are in the money, the company exercises these equity warrants for shares, when a portfolio company completes an initial public offering on a publicly reported market or is acquired by a publicly traded company. on the date a warrant is exercised into equity securities, it is marked to market as a derivative with the resulting change in value recognized as a gain or loss on derivative instruments in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. as of the exercise date, the basis or value in the equity securities is reclassified from other assets to investment securities line item on the balance sheet. the equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities under sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity instruments (sfas no. 115). in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 115, changes in fair value of securities designated as available for sale are excluded from net income and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income after applicable taxes, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. the derivative equity warrant asset portfolio is comprised of warrants in companies from industries served by svb financial group, as described in note 1 nature of business. the fair value of the derivative equity warrant asset portfolio is reviewed quarterly. the company values the warrants using an option pricing model approach, based on the standard black-scholes pricing model utilizing the following five material assumptions: underlying stock value was estimated based on information available, including any information regarding subsequent rounds of funding and a review of related customer credit files. volatility, or the quantification of the risk associated with the warrants over time, was based on guideline publicly traded companies or indices similar in nature to the underlying client companies issuing the warrant. a total of ten such indices were used. the volatility assumption for each warrant was calculated based on the average of the annualized daily volatility of a basket of comparable public companies over each of the fiscal quarters from july 1, 2001 to december 31, 2004. actual data on cancellations, expirations and exercises of the company warrants was utilized as the basis for determining the expected remaining life of warrants in each financial reporting period. warrants may be exercised in the event of acquisitions, mergers or initial public offerings (ipo), and cancelled due to events such as bankruptcies, cancellations, restructuring activities or additional financings. 102 the risk-free interest rates were derived from the appropriate treasury yield curve. risk free interest rates reflect the rates of return available on long-term high-quality fixed-income debt instruments. subsequent to issuance, the risk free rate was calculated based on a weighted average of the risk free rates that correspond closest to the expected remaining life of the warrant. other adjustments were estimated based on management judgment about the general industry environment, combined with specific information about the issuing company, when available. the company enters into foreign exchange contracts with clients involved in international trade finance activities. the company also enters into an opposite-way foreign exchange contract with a correspondent bank, which mitigates the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, for each of the contracts entered into with its clients. however, settlement, credit, and operational risks remain. the company also enters into foreign exchange forward contracts with correspondent banks to economically hedge foreign exchange exposure risk related to certain foreign currency denominated loans. these contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and are recorded at fair value in the company consolidated balance sheets. changes in the fair value of these contracts are recognized immediately in consolidated net income under gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net, a component of noninterest income. period ended gross positive fair values are recorded in other assets and gross negative fair values are recorded in other liabilities. the company enters into foreign currency option contracts with clients involved in international trade finance activities, either as the purchaser or seller of foreign currency options, depending upon the client need. for each of the currency option contracts entered into with its clients, the company enters into an opposite way foreign currency option contract with a correspondent bank, which mitigates the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the fair value of these contracts are recognized immediately in consolidated net income under gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net, a component of noninterest income. period ended gross positive fair values are recorded in other assets and gross negative fair values are recorded in other liabilities. derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock the company accounts for non-hedging contracts that are indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock in accordance with the provisions of eitf 00-19, accounting for derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock (eitf 00-19). eitf 00-19 provides for specific treatment of derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock, depending on the settlement method. the settlement methods are: physical settlement the party designated in the contract as the buyer delivers the full stated amount of cash to the seller, and the seller delivers the full stated number of shares to the buyer net-share settlement the party with a loss delivers to the party with a gain, shares with a current fair value equal to the gain net-cash settlement the party with a loss delivers to the party with a gain, a cash payment equal to the gain, and no shares are exchanged. eitf 00-19 specifies how a derivative financial instrument indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock should be recorded as one of permanent equity, temporary equity, an asset or a liability depending on the settlement method. eitf 00-19 also includes provisions governing whether a derivative embedded into a financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock may be exempt from the provisions of sfas no. 133, as amended. financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity the company accounts for financial instruments with characteristics of both liability and equity according to the provisions of sfas no. 150, accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity (sfas no. 150). sfas no. 150, issued by the fasb in may 2003, established standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. it requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within the statement scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). many of those instruments were previously classified as equity or between the liabilities and equity sections of the statement of financial position. sfas no. 150 requires financial instruments issued in the form of shares that are mandatorily redeemable (or embody an unconditional obligation requiring the issuer to redeem them by transferring their assets at a specified or determinable date or upon an event that is certain to occur) to be classified as liabilities. the statement was effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after may 31, 2003, and was effective at the beginning of the first interim 103 period beginning after june 15, 2003. it required the reporting of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for financial instruments created before the issuance date of the statement and still existing at the beginning of the interim period of adoption. restatement was not permitted. the company $40.0 million of company mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated debentures, or 8.25% trust preferred securities, were redeemed on december 1, 2003. beginning july 1, 2003, under sfas no. 150, the 8.25% trust preferred securities were classified under the liabilities section of the consolidated balance sheet and the 8.25% trust preferred securities distribution expense was classified under interest expense on the consolidated statements of income. prior to adoption of sfas no. 150, these securities were classified between the liability and equity sections of the company consolidated balance sheets, and their related expense was classified as noninterest expense on the company consolidated statements of income, under the heading trust preferred securities distributions. recent accounting pronouncements in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment (sfas no. 123(r)) which is a revision of sfas no. 123 and supersedes apb no. 25. sfas no. 123(r) requires the company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments using a fair value method, and record such expense in its consolidated financial statements for interim or annual reporting periods beginning after june 15, 2005. in addition, the adoption of sfas no. 123(r) will require additional accounting related to the income tax effects and additional disclosure regarding the cash flow effects resulting from share-based payment arrangements. the adoption of sfas no. 123(r) will have a material impact on the company consolidated results of operations, financial position, and statement of cash flows as such expense will then be reported in the company consolidated financial statements rather than on a pro forma basis. the company expects that the pro forma expense calculated under sfas no. 123 (above) will approximate the expense to be recognized under sfas no. 123(r). this disclosure does not reflect any further guidance issued subsequent to the company filing on form 10-k filed with the securities and exchange commission on march 16, 2005. 104 3. restatement of financial statements the company has restated its consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended december 31, 2004 and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements, for purposes of correcting misapplications of generally accepted accounting principles in the u.s. (gaap). the primary restatement adjustments recorded due to the misapplications of gaap are described below. derivative equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions were not accounted for as derivatives in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 133. derivative equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions were not accounted for as derivatives in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 133, as amended. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company interest income, provision for loan and lease losses, noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. the total impact, including all adjustments, increased (decreased) income before income tax expense by $(1.2) million, $6.1 million and $5.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the company often obtains derivative equity warrant assets to purchase an interest in a client stock in connection with providing credit facilities and, less frequently, for providing other services. in general, the derivative equity warrant assets that it holds entitle the company to buy a specific number of shares of stock at a specific price over a specific time period. certain warrants obtained by the company include contingent provisions, which set the underlying number of shares or strike price based upon certain future events. for example, the number of shares exercisable for some warrants is contingent upon the related lending facility, such as the extent of utilization of the facility, including draw frequency or amount. or, in some cases, the underlying strike price of some warrants may be contingent upon resolution of an event such as the share price of a subsequent future round of equity financing of the issuer. previously, the company recorded these equity warrant assets on its balance sheet at a nominal value until the date they became marketable, the date of expiration, or the date the issuer was acquired or completed an initial public offering. however, the company determined that its accounting treatment of equity warrant assets in its private and public client companies should conform to a 2001 interpretation of sfas no. 133 as amended. in april 2001, the fasb issued statement 133 derivative implementation group issue no. a17, contracts that provide for net share settlement, as revised (dig a17), which was effective with the first financial quarter, after the cleared guidance was posted to the fasb website and remains effective for all subsequent periods. as a result, the company accounting for equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions has been revised beginning as of the third quarter of 2001. the net share settlement provision contained in each of the company warrant agreements allows it to realize value without a capital investment. under such a provision, the client company delivers to the company, upon its exercise of the warrant, the amount of shares with a current fair value equal to the net gain of the warrant agreement (sometimes described as a cashless exercise). because the company warrant agreements contain such net share settlement provisions, its warrants are required to be accounted for as derivative instruments under sfas no. 133, as amended. under the revised accounting treatment, equity warrant assets in the company private and public client companies, which include net share settlement provisions are recorded at fair value and are classified as derivative assets, a component of other assets on the company balance sheet at the time they are obtained. the grant date fair values of these equity warrant assets are deemed to be loan fees and, as such, are required to be recognized as an adjustment of loan yield through interest income, as prescribed by sfas no. 91. similar to other loan fees, the yield adjustment related to the grant date fair value of equity warrant assets, received directly in connection with the issuance of a credit facility, is recognized over the life of the related credit facility in interest income. any changes in value of the warrant derivative assets subsequent to the grant date fair value are recognized in gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net in the company consolidated statements of income. if the warrant is in the money, the company exercises these equity warrants for shares when a portfolio company completes an initial public offering on a publicly reported market or is acquired by a publicly traded company. on the date a warrant is exercised and exchanged for equity securities, it is marked to market as a derivative asset with the resulting change in value recognized in gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net, in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. as of the exercise date, the basis or value in the equity securities is reclassified from other assets to the investment securities line item on the balance sheet. the equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities under sfas no. 115. in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 115, changes in fair value of securities designated as available for sale are excluded from net income and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income after applicable taxes, which is a separate component of stockholders equity. 105 the initial implementation of the 2001 interpretation of sfas no. 133, as amended, caused us to recognize the fair value of the equity warrant assets on the company consolidated balance sheet as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2001. the company recorded as unearned loan fees the estimated grant date fair value of the equity warrant assets that, as of july 1, 2001, would not yet have been amortized to interest income had this accounting policy been in place since the equity warrant assets were first received. the unearned loan fees recorded as of july 1, 2001 were amortized, as a loan yield adjustment, over the remaining life of the related credit facilities. in accordance with the implementation provisions of sfas no. 133 as amended, the fair value of the equity warrant asset portfolio, less the amount recorded as unearned loan fees at july 1, 2001, is reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. the effect of the misapplication of gaap related to derivative warrant equity assets for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 is described below. as restated years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 effects on statements of income : interest income (1) $ 5,656 $ 6,621 $ 9,228 recovery of loan and lease losses (2) 104 108 75 gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net (3) 2,749 8,208 (2,670 ) gains (losses) on investment securities, net (4) (535 ) (1,300 ) 30 total impact on income statement 7,974 13,637 6,663 less: income previously recognized (5) (9,191 ) (7,528 ) (1,661 ) net impact on pre-tax income statement $ (1,217 ) $ 6,109 $ 5,002 effects on balance sheets : other assets (6) $ 28,928 $ 29,537 $ 23,465 unearned warrant fees (7) $ 5,351 $ 4,612 $ 6,360 beginning retained earnings $ 9,840 (1) similar to other loan fees, amount represents the yield adjustment as prescribed by sfas no. 91 related to equity warrant assets received directly in connection with the issuance of a credit facility. (2) reversal of provision for loan and lease losses previously recorded due to the effect of reducing the net carrying amount of impaired loans resulting from the higher balances of unearned fees due to the recognition of the initial grant date fair value of the derivative assets net of related amortization. (3) recognition of changes in value of warrant derivative assets subsequent to the grant date fair value. (4) represents recognition of gains (losses) from the sale of shares associated with exercised equity warrant assets. upon exercise of an equity warrant asset, the fair value of the equity warrant asset plus the exercise price paid becomes the adjusted basis of the asset reclassified to investment securities. the investment security is then accounted for under sfas no. 115. (5) reversal of income previously recognized by the company in prior years under previous warrant income recognition methodology. (6) adjustment to recognize the fair value of equity warrant assets on the balance sheet in accordance with sfas no. 133. (7) represents the unearned loan fees to be amortized over the remaining life of the credit facility associated with the respective warrants. initial non-refundable corporate finance fees were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sab no. 104. initial non-refundable corporate finance fees were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sab no. 104. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company consolidated noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. the company is engaged by clients to provide merger and acquisition advisory services. the income from these engagements is typically comprised of an initial non-refundable fee due upon execution of the engagement letter and a contingent fee due upon a merger or acquisition event, if any. the engagement letters generally do not include a termination date. corporate finance fees on mergers and acquisitions advisory services, a component of noninterest income, have been restated to defer the recognition of the initial upfront non-refundable retainer until the completion of all contractual obligations pursuant to the terms of the engagement letters or upon receipt or notification of an engagement termination letter. therefore, the change in accounting resulted in a net increase (decrease) in corporate finance fees of $0.1 million, $(0.9) million and $(1.2) million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and a corresponding change in deferred revenue for the same periods, which has been or will be recognized in future periods. 106 non-refundable loan fees and costs associated with our lending products and fees associated with letters of credit were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 91. accounting for non-refundable fees and costs associated with originating or acquiring loans and initial direct costs of leases (sfas no. 91.) non-refundable loan fees and costs associated with the company lending products and fees associated with letters of credit were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 91. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to its interest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. through the company lending products and services, it extends loans and other credit facilities to its commercial clients, most often secured by the assets of its clients. the company often obtains loan fees and incurs capitalizable costs in relation to the extension of these credit facilities to its clients. net loan fee income, a component of interest income, has been restated to revise revenue recognition in accordance with the appropriate straight-line or interest method, as prescribed by sfas no. 91. in addition, the company inappropriately recognized non-refundable loan fees it receives for factoring loans rather than deferring and amortizing fees over the term of the facility granted. in addition, the company reclassified certain letters of credit fee income from loan interest income to noninterest income, as the probability of the commitment being exercised was deemed to be remote. the company did not properly defer direct loan origination costs associated with originating certain loan products. therefore, the company restated its recognition of net loan fee income by reducing loan interest income by $2.5 million, $4.7 million and $3.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 , respectively. these amounts were deferred and are recognized into income using the appropriate loan fee recognition methodology over the lives of the corresponding loans. in addition, the company reclassified certain letters of credit fee income of $7.6 million, $7.0 million and $8.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, from loan interest income to noninterest income, as the probability of the commitment being exercised was deemed to be remote. certain investment securities that were readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less, were not reported as cash equivalents in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 95, statement of cash flows (sfas no. 95). certain investment securities that were readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less, were not reported as cash equivalents in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 95. this reclassification did not result in any change to the company revenue or net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 or for any quarterly period during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. a reclassification has been made to the company consolidated balance sheets of money market mutual fund investments and commercial paper investments from investment securities to the federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities line item. these investment securities were deemed to meet the definition of cash equivalents as they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less. cash equivalents are required to be reflected separately from investment securities pursuant to sfas no. 95. therefore, the company reclassified these investment securities to federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities in the amounts of $181.3 million and $40.3 million as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable were not reflected net on the company balance sheets in accordance with the provisions of fasb interpretation no. 39, offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts (fin no. 39). current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable were not reflected net on the company balance sheets. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company other assets and other liabilities as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable should be netted as the company has the legal right of offset, as defined by fin no. 39. therefore, other assets and other liabilities have been restated to reflect the net current federal income taxes receivable or net current federal income taxes payable at each of these period ends. this correction of accounting resulted in a decrease to both other assets and other liabilities of $22.5 million and $24.6 million as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. impact of the restatement of financial statements. the cumulative impact of the restatement, including all adjustments, increased the company opening retained earnings by $11.7 million at january 1, 2002. net income for 2003 and 2002 increased by, $1.1 million and $1.1 million, respectively, and decreased in 2004 by $1.5 million. the company also recorded various other adjusting entries as part of the restatement. the impact of the restatement on the company consolidated balance sheets, statements of income, comprehensive income and cash flows is shown in the accompanying tables. 107 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets (as restated) at december 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands, except par value) as previously reported adjustments as restated as previously reported adjustments as restated assets cash and due from banks $ 279,653 4,555 $ 284,208 $ 252,521 $ 252,521 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 166,295 176,715 343,010 542,475 40,317 582,792 investment securities 2,258,207 (183,240 ) 2,074,967 1,575,434 (45,023 ) 1,530,411 loans, net of unearned income 2,312,143 (3,555 ) 2,308,588 1,989,229 (2,083 ) 1,987,146 allowance for loan and lease losses (37,613 ) (37,613 ) (49,862 ) (49,862 ) net loans 2,274,530 (3,555 ) 2,270,975 1,939,367 (2,083 ) 1,937,284 premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization 14,951 (310 ) 14,641 14,999 14,999 goodwill 35,639 35,639 37,549 37,549 accrued interest receivable and other assets 124,325 (2,086 ) 122,239 117,663 (4,809 ) 112,854 total assets $ 5,153,600 (7,921 ) $ 5,145,679 $ 4,480,008 (11,598 ) $ 4,468,410 liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity liabilities: deposits: noninterest-bearing demand $ 2,649,853 $ 2,649,853 $ 2,186,352 (35 ) $ 2,186,317 now 32,009 32,009 20,897 20,897 money market 1,206,078 1,206,078 1,080,559 1,080,559 time 331,574 331,574 379,068 379,068 total deposits 4,219,514 4,219,514 3,666,876 (35 ) 3,666,841 contingently convertible debt 146,740 146,740 145,797 145,797 junior subordinated debentures 49,421 49 49,470 49,652 (534 ) 49,118 other borrowings 9,820 9,820 17,961 17,961 other liabilities 125,163 (17,661 ) 107,502 101,973 (21,977 ) 79,996 total liabilities 4,550,658 (17,612 ) 4,533,046 3,982,259 (22,546 ) 3,959,713 commitments and contingencies minority interest in capital of consolidated affiliates 70,674 11 70,685 50,744 50,744 stockholders equity: preferred stock, $0.001 par value, 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding common stock, $0.001 par value, 150,000,000 shares authorized; 35,970,095 and 35,028,470 shares outstanding, respectively 36 36 35 35 additional paid-in capital 44,886 340 45,226 14,240 3,268 17,508 retained earnings 487,509 12,402 499,911 422,131 13,916 436,047 unearned compensation (4,512 ) (4,512 ) (1,232 ) (1,232 ) accumulated other comprehensive income 4,349 (3,062 ) 1,287 11,831 (6,236 ) 5,595 total stockholders equity 532,268 9,680 541,948 447,005 10,948 457,953 total liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity $ 5,153,600 (7,921 ) $ 5,145,679 $ 4,480,008 (11,598 ) $ 4,468,410 108 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated statements of income (as restated) for the years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) as previously reported adjustments as restated as previously reported adjustments as restated as previously reported adjustments as restated interest income: loans $ 162,063 (4,459 ) $ 157,604 $ 148,770 (5,184 ) $ 143,586 $ 156,240 (2,441 ) $ 153,799 investment securities: taxable 72,929 (2,278 ) 70,651 42,789 (3,494 ) 39,295 46,585 (8,652 ) 37,933 non-taxable 5,004 5,004 6,248 6,248 6,894 6,894 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 6,143 2,278 8,421 4,530 3,494 8,024 2,865 8,652 11,517 total interest income 246,139 (4,459 ) 241,680 202,337 (5,184 ) 197,153 212,584 (2,441 ) 210,143 interest expense: deposits 8,423 8,423 9,083 9,083 16,229 16,229 other borrowings 2,968 2,968 4,370 4,370 1,647 1,647 total interest expense 11,391 11,391 13,453 13,453 17,876 17,876 net interest income 234,748 (4,459 ) 230,289 188,884 (5,184 ) 183,700 194,708 (2,441 ) 192.267 provision for (recovery of) loan and lease losses (9,901 ) (388 ) (10,289 ) (8,727 ) (1,165 ) (9,892 ) 7,220 (1,347 ) 5,873 net interest income after provision for (recovery of) loan and lease losses 244,649 (4,071 ) 240,578 197,611 (4,019 ) 193,592 187,488 (1,094 ) 186,394 noninterest income: client investment fees 26,919 26,919 23,991 23,991 30,671 (327 ) 30,344 corporate finance fees 21,913 111 22,024 13,149 (945 ) 12,204 12,110 (1,238 ) 10,872 letter of credit and standby letter of credit income 16,399 (6,405 ) 9,994 12,856 (3,944 ) 8,912 15,225 (4,967 ) 10,258 deposit service charges 13,538 13,538 13,202 13,202 9,072 9,072 income from client warrants 9,191 (9,191 ) 0 7,528 (7,528 ) 0 1,661 (1,661 ) 0 gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 16,746 16,746 20,200 20,200 11,815 11 ,815 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 5,571 (373 ) 5,198 (8,402 ) (1,212 ) (9,614 ) (9,825 ) (854 ) (10,679 ) credit card fees 2,817 2,817 3,431 3,431 955 955 other 9,685 41 9,726 9,305 (800 ) 8,505 7,989 800 8,789 total noninterest income 106,033 929 106,962 75,060 5,771 80,831 67,858 3,568 71,426 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 155,097 (1,200 ) 153,897 122,964 (1,311 ) 121,653 104,285 (780 ) 103,505 net occupancy 17,590 544 18,134 17,638 17,638 20,391 20,391 professional services 17,068 17,068 13,677 13,677 18,385 18,385 furniture and equipment 12,403 12,403 11,289 11,289 9,562 9,562 business development and travel 9,718 9,718 8,692 8,692 8,426 8,426 correspondent bank fees 5,340 5,340 4,343 4,343 2,835 2,835 data processing services 3,647 3,647 4,288 4,288 4,360 4,360 telephone 3,367 3,367 3,187 3,187 3,123 3,123 postage and supplies 3,255 3,255 2,601 2,601 3,190 3,190 tax credit fund amortization 2,480 2,480 2,704 2,704 2,963 2,963 impairment of goodwill 1,910 1,910 63,000 63,000 provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 1,549 1,549 2,504 2,504 (3,338 ) (3,338 ) trust preferred securities distributions 594 1,001 1,595 2,230 1,070 3,300 other 9,062 9,062 7,710 15 7,725 6,624 6,624 total noninterest expense 242,486 (656 ) 241,830 265,191 (295 ) 264,896 183,036 290 183,326 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 108,196 (2,486 ) 105,710 7,480 2,047 9,527 72,310 2,184 74,494 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (3,079 ) (11 ) (3,090 ) 7,689 7,689 7,767 7,767 income before income tax expense 105,117 (2,497 ) 102,620 15,169 2,047 17,216 80,077 2,184 82,261 income tax expense 39,741 (987 ) 38,754 3,192 982 4,174 26,719 1,042 27,761 net income $ 65,376 (1,510 ) $ 63,866 $ 11,977 1,065 $ 13,042 $ 53,358 1,142 $ 54,500 earnings per common share-basic $ 1.86 (0.05 ) $ 1.81 $ 0.33 0.03 $ 0.36 $ 1.21 0.03 $ 1.24 earnings per common share-diluted $ 1.74 (0.04 ) $ 1.70 $ 0.32 0.03 $ 0.35 $ 1.18 0.03 $ 1.21 109 svb financial group and subsidiaries consolidated statements of comprehensive income (as restated) (as restated) for the years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) as previously reported adjustments as restated as previously reported adjustments as restated as previously reported adjustments as restated net income $ 65,376 (1,510 ) $ 63,866 $ 11,977 1,065 $ 13,042 $ 53,358 1,142 $ 54,500 other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax: cumulative translation loss: translation loss (722 ) 722 related tax effect 301 (301 ) change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale investment securities: unrealized holding gains (losses) 4,670 (14,270 ) (9,600 ) 3,272 (14,619 ) (11,347 ) 8,715 792 9,507 related tax effect (1,950 ) 5,960 4,010 (1,318 ) 6,001 4,683 (2,911 ) (1,004 ) (3,915 ) reclassification adjustment for gains (losses) included in net income (14,762 ) 16,964 2,202 (7,528 ) 6,081 (1,447 ) (1,662 ) 1,692 30 related tax effect 4,981 (5,901 ) (920 ) 3,033 (2,436 ) 597 555 (567 ) (12 ) other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax (7,482 ) 3,174 (4,308 ) (2,541 ) (4,973 ) (7,514 ) 4,697 913 5,610 comprehensive income $ 57,894 1,664 $ 59,558 $ 9,436 (3,908 ) $ 5,528 $ 58,055 2,055 $ 60,110 svb financial group and subsidiaries condensed statements of cash flows (as restated) (as restated) for the years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 (dollars in thousands) as previously reported adjustments as restated as previously reported adjustments as restated as previously reported adjustments as restated cash flows from operating activities: net cash provided by operating activities $ 91,997 $ 2,339 $ 94,336 $ 77,135 $ (850 ) $ 76,285 $ 98,304 $ 4,221 $ 102,525 cash flows from investing activities: net cash used for investing activities (1,014,162 ) 137,842 (876,320 ) 41,130 (340,658 ) (299,528 ) (32,422 ) (116,793 ) (149,215 ) cash flows from financing activities: net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 573,538 351 573,889 234,142 44 234,186 (63,825 ) 123 (63,702 ) foreign exchange effect on cash and cash equivalents/non-cash (421 ) 421 net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (349,048 ) 140,953 (208,095 ) 352,407 (341,464 ) 10,943 2,057 (112,449 ) (110,392 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 794,996 40,317 835,313 442,589 381,781 824,370 440,532 494,230 934,762 cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 445,948 $ 181,270 $ 627,218 $ 794,996 $ 40,317 $ 835,313 $ 442,589 $ 381,781 $ 824,370 supplemental disclosures: cash paid during the period for: interest paid $ 11,305 $ 11,305 $ 13,084 $ 13,084 $ 18,487 $ 18,487 income taxes paid $ 25,307 $ 25,307 $ 17,802 $ 17,802 $ 6,812 $ 6,812 noncash items during the period: increase in deferred rent liability and accounts receivable related to landlord non-cash incentives $ 6,992 $ 6,992 $ $ $ $ increase in deferred rent liability and deferred rent asset related to rent abatement regarding the renewal of the lease of the headquarters property. $ $ 2,255 $ $ $ $ notes 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25, 26 and 28 to the consolidated financial statements have also been restated to reflect the above restatement adjustments. 110 4. business combinations on october 1, 2002, the company acquired substantially all of the assets of woodside asset management, inc., an investment advisor firm, which had approximately $200 million of client financial assets under management for 70 clients. the company expected woodside asset management, inc. to enable it to expand its product offerings in the private banking. additionally, as part of this acquisition, svb financial group obtained the general partner interests in two limited partnerships, taurus growth partners, lp, and libra partners, lp. the company has less than a 1% ownership interest in each of these funds. the remaining ownership interest represents limited partners funds invested on their behalf by the general partner in certain fixed income and marketable equity securities. however, due to the company ability to control the investing activities of these limited partnerships, the company has consolidated the related results of operations and financial condition into its consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. the limited partners did not hold substantive participating rights. the financial assets of the taurus and libra funds were liquidated and distributed to their respective limited partners prior to december 31, 2004. 5. earnings per share the following is a reconciliation of basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002: (as restated) (dollar and shares in thousands, except per share amounts) net income weighted average shares per share amount year ended december 31, 2004: income available to common stockholders basic $ 63,866 35,215 $ 1.81 effect of dilutive securities: stock options, restricted stock and convertible debt 2,297 income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions diluted $ 63,866 37,512 $ 1.70 year ended december 31, 2003: income available to common stockholders basic $ 13,042 36,109 $ 0.36 effect of dilutive securities: stock options and restricted stock 1,122 income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions diluted $ 13,042 37,231 $ 0.35 year ended december 31, 2002: income available to common stockholders basic $ 54,500 44,000 $ 1.24 effect of dilutive securities: stock options and restricted stock 1,053 income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions diluted $ 54,500 45,053 $ 1.21 in september 2004, the eitf reached final consensus on eitf 04-8, the effect of contingently convertible instruments on diluted earnings per share (eitf 04-8), that contingently convertible securities should be treated as convertible securities and included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share. the diluted earnings per common share for the year ended december 31, 2004 and 2003 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, have been restated to reflect the december 31, 2004 adoption of eitf 04-8. the potential dilutive effect of the contingently convertible debt using the treasury stock method was considered anti-dilutive in 2003, whereby the average price of the company stock during the periods were less than the conversion price. the potential dilutive effect of the contingently convertible debt using the treasury stock method was 372,622 shares as of december 31, 2004. the company included the dilutive effect of the $150.0 million zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes due june 15, 2008 in its fully diluted earnings per share (eps) calculation using the treasury stock method, in accordance with the provisions of eitf no. 90-19, convertible bonds with issuer option to settle in cash upon conversion (eitf 90-19) and sfas no. 128, earnings per share (sfas no. 128). however, the exposure draft of sfas no. 128r, if adopted in its proposed form, will require the company to change its 111 accounting for the calculation of eps on its contingently convertible debt to the if converted method. the if converted treatment of the contingently convertible debt would have decreased eps by $0.17 per diluted common share, or 10.0 percent for 2004. these c alculations do not take into effect exposure drafts issued subsequent to the company filing on form 10-k filed with the securities and exchange commission on march 16, 2005. for a description of the convertible subordinated notes, see note 13 borrowings below. 6. restrictions on cash balances the bank is required to maintain reserves against customer deposits by keeping balances with the federal reserve bank of san francisco in a noninterest-bearing cash account. the average required reserve balance totaled $13.9 million in 2004 and $7.6 million in 2003. 7. securities purchased under agreement to resell securities purchased under agreement to resell at december 31, 2004 consisted of u.s. treasury securities, u.s. agency securities, private label mortgage-backed securities, which are rated a or better, and commercial paper rated not less than a1, p1 or f1. securities purchased under agreement to resell totaled $150.4 million and $540.6 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and averaged $395.3 million and $355.3 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. the maximum amount outstanding at any month-end during 2004 and 2003 was $698.2 million and $548.3 million, respectively. 112 8. investment securities the following tables detail the major components of the company investment securities portfolio at december 31, 2004 and 2003: (as restated) december 31, 2004 (dollars in thousands) amortized cost unrealized gains unrealized losses carrying value available-for-sale securities: u.s. treasury securities $ 30,013 $ $ (247 ) $ 29,766 u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 814,571 3,133 (3,785 ) 813,919 mortgage-backed securities 592,282 4,372 (2,212 ) 594,442 discount notes and bonds 280,611 200 (2,480 ) 278,331 asset-backed securities 101,691 32 (727 ) 100,996 obligations of states and political subdivisions 93,734 4,303 98,037 other debt securities 10,001 (150 ) 9,851 marketable equity securities 1,577 (234 ) 1,343 total available-for-sale securities $ 1,924,480 $ 12,040 $ (9,835 ) 1,926,685 marketable equity securities (investment company fair value accounting)(2) 480 non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments(3) 52,547 other private equity investments(4) 15,720 other investments(5) 11,247 non-marketable securities (equity method accounting): other investments(6) 2,388 low income housing tax credit funds 14,070 non-marketable securities (cost method accounting): fund investments 27,409 federal home loan bank stock(7) 12,798 federal reserve bank stock(7) 7,967 other private equity investments 3,656 total investment securities $ 2,074,967 113 (as restated) december 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands) amortized cost unrealized gains unrealized losses carrying value available-for-sale securities: u.s. treasury securities $ 31,033 $ 120 $ $ 31,153 u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 612,210 3,942 (4,767 ) 611,385 mortgage-backed securities 294,156 4,312 (1,974 ) 296,494 discount notes and bonds 285,158 999 (728 ) 285,429 asset-backed securities 37,501 220 (26 ) 37,695 obligations of states and political subdivisions 143,185 7,686 150,871 other debt securities 10,540 13 (800 ) 9,753 venture capital fund investments 8 8 marketable equity securities 827 (34 ) 793 other private equity investments(1) 8,004 598 8,602 total available-for-sale securities $ 1,422,622 $ 17,890 $ (8,329 ) 1,432,183 non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments(3) 30,149 other private equity investments(4) 10,097 non-marketable securities (equity method accounting): low income housing tax credit funds 16,551 non-marketable securities (cost method accounting): fund investments 27,205 federal home loan bank stock(7) 3,009 federal reserve bank stock(7) 7,467 other private equity investments 3,750 total investment securities $ 1,530,411 (1) includes $0.0 million and $8.6 million related to investments owned by two consolidated limited partnerships, taurus growth partners, lp and libra partners, lp as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the taurus growth partners, lp and libra partners, lp funds were liquidated and the funds were fully distributed in december 2004. the company had a controlling ownership interest of less than 1% in the funds. (2) includes $0.5 million related to silicon valley bancventures, lp, at december 31, 2004. the company has a controlling interest of 10.7% in the fund. (3) includes $45.3 million and $30.1 million related to the company fund of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp, as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the company has a controlling ownership interest of 11.1% in the fund. it also includes $7.3 million to svb strategic investors fund ii, lp at december 31, 2004. (4) includes $15.7 million and $10.1 million related to the company venture capital fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp, as of december 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. the company has a controlling ownership interest of 10.7% in the fund. (5) includes $9.0 million related to partners for growth, lp, at december 31, 2004. the company has a majority ownership interest of 53.2% in the fund. it also included $2.3 million related to gold hill venture lending 03, lp, as of december 31, 2004. the company has a direct ownership interest of 4.8% in the fund. (6) includes $2.4 million related to gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc, the general partner of gold hill venture lending 03, lp, as of december 31, 2004. the company has a majority interest of 90.7% in gold hill venture lending partner 03, llc. gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc has ownership interest of 5.0% in the fund. (7) federal home loan bank ( fhlb ) and federal reserve bank ( frb ) stock are restricted, as the company is required to hold shares of fhlb and frb stock under the bank borrowing agreement. 114 the following table breaks out the company unrealized losses on its investment securities portfolio into less than 12 months or 12 months or longer as of december 31, 2004: (as restated) december 31, 2004 less than twelve months twelve months or longer total fair value unrealized losses fair value(1) unrealized losses(1) fair value unrealized losses (dollars in thousands) u.s. treasury securities $ 29,766 $ (247 ) $ $ $ 29,766 $ (247 ) u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 392,633 (3,037 ) 21,628 (748 ) 414,261 (3,785 ) mortgage-backed securities 115,115 (570 ) 69,537 (1,642 ) 184,652 (2,212 ) discount notes and bonds 213,251 (2,480 ) 213,251 (2,480 ) asset-backed securities 91,027 (727 ) 91,027 (727 ) other debt securities 9,851 (150 ) 9,851 (150 ) marketable equity securities 1,577 (234 ) 1,577 (234 ) total temporarily impaired securities $ 843,369 $ (7,295 ) $ 101,016 $ (2,540 ) $ 944,385 $ (9,835 ) (1) as of december 31, 2004, the company identified ten investments totaling $101.0 million that had unrealized losses of $(2.5) million for a period of greater than twelve months. of the ten investments, $69.5 million related to six securities classified as mortgaged-backed securities. these securities were originally purchased as early as june 2003 and had unrealized losses of approximately $1.6 million at december 31, 2004. since the unrealized losses were due solely to market interest rate movements, the securities were deemed to be temporarily impaired. there were investments of $21.6 million, which related to two securities classified as collateralized mortgage obligation. they were originally purchased as early as june 2002, and had unrealized losses of approximately $0.7 million at december 31, 2004, also due solely to market interest rate movements, thus were also deemed to be temporarily impaired. the two remaining securities totaled $9.9 million and had unrealized losses of $0.2 million at december 31, 2004. these are auction rate preferred securities and are classified as commercial paper and other debt securities. the unrealized losses were the result of a credit downgrade from a1 to baa2, effective june 25, 2002. the securities continue to be investment grade and the company has deemed the impairment as temporary. market valuations and impairment analysis on assets in the investment portfolio are reviewed and monitored on an ongoing basis. investment securities remaining contractual principal maturities the following table provides the remaining contractual principal maturities and fully taxable-equivalent yields on investment securities as of december 31, 2004, except for auction rate securities that use the next reset date as the maturity date. interest income on certain obligations of states and political subdivision (non-taxable investments) are presented on a fully tax-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. the weighted-average yield is computed using the amortized cost of available-for-sale securities, which are reported at fair value. expected remaining maturities of callable u.s. agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, and collateralized mortgage obligations may differ significantly from their contractual maturities because borrowers have the right to prepay obligations with or without penalties. this is most apparent in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations as contractual maturities are typically 15 to 30 years whereas, expected average lives of these securities are significantly shorter and vary based upon structure. venture capital fund investments, other private equity investments, federal reserve bank stock, federal home loan bank stock, and tax credit funds are included in the table below as maturing after 10 years. 115 (as restated) december 31, 2004 total one year or less after one year to five years after five years to ten years after ten years (dollars in thousands) carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield carrying value weighted- average yield u.s. treasury securities $ 29,766 2.76 % $ 19,860 2.66 % $ 9,906 2.97 % $ % $ % u.s. agencies and corporations: collateralized mortgage obligations 813,919 4.54 619 6.33 813,300 4.54 mortgage-backed securities 594,442 4.89 1,009 5.70 593,433 4.89 discount notes and bonds 278,331 3.90 9,962 2.93 208,194 3.71 60,175 4.70 asset-backed securities 100,996 3.13 49,691 3.07 51,305 3.18 obligations of states and political subdivisions 98,037 4.25 11,669 3.31 77,016 4.24 9,352 5.60 other debt securities 9,851 3.08 9,851 3.08 federal reserve bank stock, federal home loan bank stock, and tax credit funds 34,835 34,835 marketable equity securities(1) 480 480 marketable equity securities(2) 1,343 1,343 venture capital fund investments 79,956 79,956 other private equity investments 19,376 19,376 other investments. 13,635 13,635 total $ 2,074,967 4.12 % $ 52,685 2.94 % $ 346,435 3.73 % $ 120,832 4.13 % $ 1,555,015 4.69 % (1) investment company fair value accounting. (2) available for sale. 116 investment securities with a fair value of $123.0 million and $122.6 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were pledged to secure certain public deposits and a line of credit at the federal reserve bank of san francisco discount window. for further information, see note 13 - borrowings. the cost of investment securities is determined on a specific identification basis. the following table presents the components of gains and losses on investment securities for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002. (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 gross gains on investment securities: available-for-sale securities, at fair value $ 2,738 $ $ 30 non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments 5,568 1,541 44 other private equity investments 3,163 2,324 581 other investments 7 12 non-marketable securities (cost method accounting): venture capital fund investments 1,282 154 275 other private equity investments 1,035 2,113 142 total gross gains on investment securities 13,793 6,144 1,072 gross losses on investment securities: available-for-sale securities, at fair value (535 ) (1,447 ) non-marketable securities (investment company fair value accounting): venture capital fund investments (3,655 ) (5,966 ) (5,761 ) other private equity investments (977 ) (4,063 ) (1,315 ) other investments (48 ) (40 ) (40 ) non-marketable securities (cost method accounting): venture capital fund investments (3,063 ) (2,802 ) (2,510 ) other private equity investments (317 ) (1,440 ) (2,125 ) total gross losses on investment securities (8,595 ) (15,758 ) (11,751 ) gains (losses) on investment securities, net $ 5,198 $ (9,614 ) $ (10,679 ) 117 9. loans and allowance for loan and lease losses the detailed composition of loans, net of unearned income of $18.4 million and $14.4 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, is presented in the following table: (as restated) december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 commercial loans $ 1,927,271 $ 1,701,903 vineyard development 80,960 50,118 commercial real estate 18,562 12,204 total real estate construction 99,522 62,322 real estate term consumer 27,124 19,213 real estate term commercial 16,720 12,902 total real estate term 43,844 32,115 consumer and other 237,951 190,806 total loans, net of unearned income $ 2,308,588 $ 1,987,146 the company loan classifications for financial reporting purposes differ from those for regulatory reporting purposes. loans are classified for financial reporting purposes based upon the purpose and primary source of repayment of the loans. loans are classified for regulatory reporting purposes based upon the type of collateral securing the loans. a substantial percentage of the company loans are commercial in nature, and such loans are generally made to emerging-growth or corporate technology companies in a variety of industries. as of december 31, 2004, the company software tools and applications industry subsector represented 16.1% of total gross loans, the premium wine industry sector represented 14.2% of total gross loans, the venture capital industry subsector represented 13.2% of total gross loans, and the private client services sector represented 11.2% of total gross loans. no other industry sector represented more than 10.0% of total gross loans at december 31, 2004. approximately 50% of the company outstanding gross loan balances are in the state of california. there are no other states with balances greater than 10%. the activity in the allowance for loan and lease losses for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, is summarized below: (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 balance at beginning of year $ 49,862 $ 58,366 $ 56,903 (recovery of) provision for loan losses (10,289 ) (9,892 ) 5,873 loans charged off (16,196 ) (18,975 ) (26,585 ) recoveries 14,236 20,363 22,175 balance at end of year $ 37,613 $ 49,862 $ 58,366 the aggregate recorded investment in loans for which impairment has been determined in accordance with sfas no. 114 totaled $14.3 million and $12.4 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, nonaccrual loans represented all impaired loans. there were no commitments available for funding to any clients with nonaccrual loans at december 31, 2004. allocations of the allowance for loan and lease losses related to impaired loans totaled $4.2 million and $3.1 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. average impaired loans for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, totaled $15.0 million, $15.6 million, and $19.6 million, respectively. if these loans had not been impaired, $1.1 million, $1.0 million, and $1.3 million in interest income would have been realized during the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the company realized no interest income on such impaired loans for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. 118 10. premises and equipment premises and equipment at december 31, 2004 and 2003, consist of the following: (as restated) years ended december 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) cost: computer software $ 19,581 $ 15,162 leasehold improvements 18,145 17,716 computer hardware 10,174 7,807 furniture and equipment 5,172 3,966 total cost 53,072 44,651 accumulated depreciation and amortization (38,431 ) (29,652 ) premises and equipment, net $ 14,641 $ 14,999 11. goodwill goodwill totaled $35.6 million and $37.5 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. all of the company goodwill at december 31, 2004, pertained to the acquisition of svb alliant (formerly alliant partners). svb alliant during the second quarter of 2004, the company conducted its annual impairment review of svb alliant in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142, based primarily on forecasted discounted cash flow analyses. the company also conducted an impairment review during the fourth quarter in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142. in both instances, the valuation analysis of svb alliant indicated no further impairment beyond that already identified and recorded. during the second quarter of 2003, the company conducted its annual impairment review of svb alliant, which elicited an indication of possible impairment. despite an increase in revenues during the second quarter of 2003 compared to the first quarter of 2003, svb alliant failed to achieve the revenues projected by the financial model used to value svb alliant in connection with its original acquisition by the company. in response to these indications, the company engaged valuation consultants to assist the company in the valuation of svb alliant, in compliance with the requirements of sfas no. 142. based on this valuation, the company recorded an impairment charge of $17.0 million during the second quarter of 2003. during the fourth quarter of 2003, it became apparent that the operating results of svb alliant during the second half of 2003 were substantially below the performance forecasted in connection with the second quarter analysis, primarily due to decreased fees associated with weak initial public offering (ipo) and mergers and acquisitions environments. the company engaged the same business-consulting firm that assisted it with its annual impairment review during the second quarter of 2003 to assist it in conducting a valuation of svb alliant, in compliance with the requirements of sfas no. 142. based on this valuation, the company recorded an impairment charge of $46.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2003. the total impairment charge for 2003 was $63.0 million. woodside asset management, inc. during the third quarter of 2004, the company conducted its annual impairment review of woodside asset management, inc., which indicated possible impairment. based primarily on an internal analysis of forecasted discounted cash flows, the company recorded an impairment charge for the entire goodwill amount of $1.9 million during the third quarter of 2004. woodside asset management, inc. failed to achieve or exceed the projected operating results used as the basis of its valuation in connection with its original acquisition by the company. 119 12. deposits the aggregate amount of time deposit accounts individually exceeding $100,000 totaled $286.7 million and $333.6 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. interest expense paid on time deposits individually exceeding $100,000 totaled $1.7 million, $3.2 million, and $6.7 million for years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. at december 31, 2004, time deposit accounts, individually exceeding $100,000 totaling $281.8 million were scheduled to mature within one year. 13. borrowings the following table represents outstanding borrowings at december 31, 2004 and 2003: (as restated) years ended december 31, maturity 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) 0% short-term borrowings(1) september 28, 2003 $ $ 0% short-term borrowings(1) september 28, 2004 9,124 0% short-term borrowings(1) september 28, 2005 9,120 revolving line of credit partners for growth due on demand 700 0% long-term note payable(1) september 28, 2004 0% long-term note payable(1) september 28, 2005 8,837 total other borrowings $ 9,820 $ 17,961 contingently convertible debt june 15, 2008 146,740 145,797 junior subordinated debentures october 15, 2033 49,470 49,118 (1) relates to the acquisition of svb alliant (alliant partners) in 2001 and were payable to the former owners, who have been employed by the company. these notes were discounted over their respective terms, based on market interest rates as of september 28, 2001. interest expense related to borrowings was $3.0 million, $4.4 million, and $1.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. weighted average interest rate associated to the company short-term borrowings outstanding for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 was 1.40%, 3.15%, and 2.86%, respectively. see note 4 - business combinations and note 20 - related parties. contingently convertible debt on may 20, 2003, the company issued $150.0 million of zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes at face value, due june 15, 2008, to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to rule 144a under the securities act and outside the united states to non-us persons pursuant to regulation under the securities act. the notes are convertible into the company common stock at a conversion price of $33.6277 per share and are subordinated to all present and future senior debt of the company. holders of the notes may convert their notes only if: (i) the price of the company common stock issuable upon conversion of a note reaches a specified threshold, (ii) specified corporate transactions occur, or (iii) the trading price for the notes falls below certain thresholds. at the initial conversion price, each $1,000 principal amount of notes will be convertible into approximately 29.7374 shares of the company common stock. this represents 4,460,610 shares of the company common stock. on august 14, 2003, the company filed a shelf registration statement with the securities and exchange commission, with respect to the resale of the notes and the common stock issuable upon the conversion of the notes. the fair value of the convertible subordinated notes at december 31, 2004, was $205.9 million, based on quoted market prices. the company intends to settle the principal amount of $150.0 million (accreted value) in cash. based on the terms of the notes, if, at any time before june 15, 2007, the per share stock price on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter was 110% or more of the then current conversion price, the notes would become convertible. as of december 31, 2004, the company was unaware of any note holders exercising their conversion option. concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes, the company entered into a convertible note hedge and a warrant transaction with respect to its common stock, with the objective of decreasing its exposure to potential dilution from conversion of the notes (see note 16. derivative financial instruments - accounting for derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock). 120 7.0% junior subordinated debentures on october 30, 2003, the company issued $51.5 million in 7.0% junior subordinated debentures to a special-purpose trust, svb capital ii. distributions to svb capital ii are cumulative and are payable quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.0% per annum of the face value of the junior subordinated debentures. distributions for the year ended december 31, 2004 were $3.5 million. there were no distributions in 2003. the junior subordinated debentures are mandatorily redeemable upon the maturity of the debentures on october 15, 2033, or to the extent that the company redeems any debentures earlier. the company may redeem the debentures prior to maturity in whole or in part, at its option, at any time on or after october 30, 2008. in addition, the company may redeem the debentures, in whole but not in part, prior to october 30, 2008, upon the occurrence of certain events. issuance costs of $2.2 million related to the junior subordinated debentures were deferred and are being amortized over the period until mandatory redemption of the debentures in october 2033 (see note 16 - derivative financial instruments). the fair value of the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures is included in note 22 - fair value of financial instruments. the company has guaranteed the trust preferred securities issued by svb capital ii (see note 15 - - commitments and contingencies). available lines of credit as of december 31, 2004, the company had available $304.0 million in federal funds and lines of credit, all of which were unused. 14. trust preferred securities 8.25% fixed rate trust preferred securities in may 1998, the company issued $40.0 million in cumulative trust preferred securities through a newly formed special-purpose trust, svb capital i. the company completed the early redemption of the 8.25% trust preferred securities on december 1, 2003. at the time of redemption, the remaining unamortized issuance costs of $1.3 million related to the trust preferred securities were expensed . the trust was a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary of the company, and its sole assets were the junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures. distributions were cumulative and were payable quarterly at a rate of 8.25% per annum of the stated liquidation amount of $25 per preferred security. the obligations of the trust were fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by the company. 15. commitments and contingencies operating leases the company is obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment that expire at various dates, through 2014, and in most instances, include options to renew or extend at market rates and terms. such leases may provide for periodic adjustments of rentals during the term of the lease based on changes in various economic indicators. the following table presents minimum payments under noncancelable operating leases as of december 31, 2004: years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands): 2005 $ 10,578 2006 9,298 2007 8,388 2008 7,129 2009 5,490 2010 and thereafter 16,252 total $ 57,135 less: income from subleases (594 ) net minimum operating lease payments $ 56,541 121 rent expense for premises leased under operating leases totaled $11.1 million, $11.0 million, and $13.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. in 2002, the company exited leased premises, located in santa clara, california, approximating 18,000 square feet. the lease on the building will expire in august 2005. management determined that the premises would have no future economic value to the company operations, except for any potential future sub-lease arrangement. therefore, during 2002, the company incurred charge-offs of approximately $2.5 million related to the exit of these premises. svb capital ii trust preferred securities in october, 2003, svb capital ii issued $50.0 million in 7.0% trust preferred securities that svb financial has fully and unconditionally guaranteed, based on its combined obligations under a guarantee agreement, a trust agreement, an expense agreement, a junior subordinated indenture and the debentures issued under the junior subordinated indenture. svb capital ii will redeem the trust preferred securities on october 15, 2033, and may redeem them earlier, subject to prior approval by the board of governors of the federal reserve system, if then required by the capital rules of the federal reserve board. svb financial entered into the guarantee agreement concurrently with the issuance of the trust preferred securities for the benefit of the holders of the trust preferred securities. wilmington trust company acts as guarantee trustee under the guarantee agreement for the purposes of compliance with the trust indenture act, and the guarantee is qualified as an indenture under the trust indenture act. the guarantee trustee will hold the guarantee for the benefit of the holders of the trust preferred securities. legal matters certain lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business have been filed or are pending against the company or its affiliates. based upon information available to the company, its review of such claims to date and consultation with its outside legal counsel, management believes the liability relating to these actions, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the company liquidity, consolidated financial position, or results of operations. where appropriate, as determined by the company, reserves have been established in accordance with sfas no. 5, accounting for contingencies. the outcome of litigation and other legal and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain, however, and it is possible that one or more of the legal or regulatory matters currently pending or threatened could have a material effect. 122 16. derivative financial instruments the company designates a derivative as held for hedging purposes or non-hedging when it enters into a derivative contract. the designation may change based upon management reassessment or changing circumstances. derivative instruments that the company obtains or uses include interest rate swaps, forward contracts, options and warrants. a swap agreement is a contract between two parties to exchange cash flows based on specified underlying notional amounts, assets and/or indices. forward settlement contracts are agreements to buy or sell a quantity of a financial instrument, index, currency or commodity at a predetermined future date, and rate or price. an option or warrant contract is an agreement that conveys to the purchaser the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a quantity of a financial instrument (including another derivative financial instrument), index, currency or commodity at a predetermined rate or price during a period or at a time in the future. option or warrant agreements can be transacted on organized exchanges or directly between parties. the gross positive fair values of derivative assets are recorded as a component of the other assets line item on the balance sheets. the gross negative fair values of derivative liabilities are recorded as a component of the other liabilities line item on the balance sheets. the total notional or contractual amounts, credit risk amount and estimated net fair value for derivatives as of december 31, 2004 and 2003 were: (as restated) at december 31, 2004 notional or contractual credit risk estimated net amount amount (1) fair value (dollars in thousands) fair value hedge interest rate swap $ 50,000 $ 49 $ 49 derivatives foreign exchange spot and forwards 525,434 10,011 (431 ) foreign currency options 13,460 47 equity warrant assets n/a 28,928 28,928 (as restated) at december 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands) fair value hedge interest rate swap $ 50,000 $ $ (267 ) derivatives foreign exchange spot and forwards 155,771 3,532 15 foreign currency options 13,148 26 equity warrant assets n/a 29,537 29,537 (1) credit risk amounts reflect the replacement cost for those contracts in a gain position in the event of nonperformance by all such counterparties. fair value hedges derivative instruments that the company holds as a part of its interest rate risk management may include interest rate swaps, caps and floors, and forward contracts. on october 30, 2003, the company entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $50.0 million. this agreement hedges against the risk of changes in fair values associated with the majority of the company 7.0% fixed rate, junior subordinated debentures. for information on the company junior subordinated debentures, see note 13 - borrowings. the terms of this fair value hedge agreement provide for a swap of the company 7.0% fixed rate payment for a variable rate based on london inter-bank offer rate (libor) plus a spread. because the swap meets the criteria for the short-cut treatment, the benefit or expense is recorded in the period incurred. this derivative agreement provided income of $2.2 and $1.4 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. the swap agreement mirrors the terms of the junior subordinated 123 debentures and therefore is callable by the counterparty anytime on or after october 30, 2008. the company assumes no ineffectiveness as the swap agreement meets the short-cut method requirements under sfas no. 133 as amended, for fair value hedges of debt instruments. as a result, changes in the fair value of the swap are offset by changes in the fair value of the junior subordinated debentures, and no net gain or loss is recognized in earnings. changes in the fair value of the derivative agreement and the junior subordinated debentures are primarily dependent on changes in market interest rates. derivatives the company enters into various derivatives primarily to provide derivative products or services to customers. these derivatives are not linked to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to forecasted transactions in an accounting hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge accounting. they are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as part of the company noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. the company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts and non-deliverable foreign exchange forward contracts with clients involved in international trade finance activities, either as the purchaser or seller of foreign currency at a future date, depending upon the clients need. for each of the foreign exchange forward contracts and non-deliverable foreign exchange forward contracts entered into with its clients, the company enters into an opposite way foreign exchange forward contract and non-deliverable foreign exchange forward contract with a correspondent bank, which mitigates the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. these contracts are short-term in nature, typically expiring within one year. the company has not experienced nonperformance by counterparties and therefore has not incurred related losses. further, the company anticipates performance by all counterparties to such agreements. the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. the company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts with correspondent banks to economically hedge foreign exchange exposure risk related to certain foreign currency denominated loans. these contracts are short term in nature, typically expiring within one year. there were no foreign exchange forward contracts related to foreign exchange loans in 2003. the company has not experienced nonperformance by counterparties and therefore has not incurred related losses. further, the company anticipates performance by all counterparties to such foreign exchange forward contracts. the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. the company enters into foreign currency option contracts with clients involved in international trade finance activities, either as the purchaser or seller of foreign currency options, depending upon the client need. for each of the currency option contracts entered into with its clients, the company enters into an opposite way foreign currency option contract with a correspondent bank, which mitigates the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. these contracts typically expire in less than one year. the company has not experienced nonperformance by counterparties and therefore has not incurred related losses. further, the company anticipates performance by all counterparties. the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. the company obtains derivative equity warrant assets to purchase an equity position in a client company stock in consideration for providing credit facilities and less frequently for providing other services. the purpose of obtaining warrants from client companies is intended to increase future revenue. the change in fair value of equity warrant assets is recorded in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. the change in fair value of the equity warrant assets resulted in a net gain (loss) of $2.7 million, $8.2 million and $2.7 million at december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. for information on the company change in the value of equity warrant assets, see note 3 restatement of financial statements. on june 3, 2002, the company entered into an interest rate swap, which provided an economic hedge against the risk of changes in fair values associated with our $40.0 million, 8.25% fixed rate trust preferred securities. this agreement provided a benefit of $1.0 million and $1.1 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. the swap was terminated on june 23, 2003. the change in fair value of this contract is recorded in noninterest income, a component of consolidated net income. derivative fair value instruments indexed to and potentially settled in a company own stock concurrent with the issuance of the $150 million principal amount of contingently convertible notes, (see note 13 borrowings), the company entered into a convertible note hedge (purchased call option) at a cost of $39.3 million and a warrant transaction providing proceeds of $17.4 million with respect to its common stock, with the objective of decreasing its exposure to potential dilution from conversion of the contingently convertible notes. under the terms of the convertible note hedge, upon the occurrence of conversion events, the company has the right to purchase up to 124 approximately 4,460,610 shares of its common stock from the counterparty at a price of $33.6277 per common share. the convertible note hedge agreement will expire on june 15, 2008. the company has the option to settle any amounts due under the convertible hedge either in cash or net shares of its common stock. the cost of the convertible note hedge is included in stockholders equity in accordance with the guidance in eitf 00-19. under the warrant agreement, the counterparty may purchase up to approximately 4,460,608 shares of the company common stock at $51.34 per share, upon the occurrence of conversion events defined above. the warrant transaction will expire on june 15, 2008. the proceeds of the warrant transaction were included in stockholders equity in accordance with the guidance in eitf 00-19. also see note 5 earnings per share. 17. common stock repurchases $160.0 million share repurchase program authorized by the company board of directors, effective may 7, 2003 on may 7, 2003, the company announced that its board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $160.0 million. this program became effective immediately and replaced previously announced stock repurchase programs. under this program, the company repurchased in aggregate 0.3 million shares of common stock totaling $12.6 million in 2004. in 2003, the company repurchased in aggregate 4.5 million shares of common stock totaling $113.2 million. on may 20, 2003, the company purchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for approximately $33.4 million in conjunction with the company convertible note offering. additionally, during the three months ended june 30, 2003, the company entered into an accelerated stock repurchase (asr) agreement for 3.2 million shares at an initial price of $79.9 million. the company completed its settlement obligations under this asr agreement in the third quarter of 2003. the approximate value of shares that may still be repurchased under this program totaled $34.2 million as of december 31, 2004. $100.0 million share repurchase program authorized by the company board of directors on september 16, 2002 from its inception through its termination on may 7, 2003, the company repurchased 5.2 million shares of common stock totaling $94.3 million in conjunction with the $100.0 million share repurchase program. under this program, the company had repurchased 3.3 million shares of common stock totaling $59.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2002. a portion of the shares repurchased under this program was completed under an asr agreement. $50.0 million share repurchase program authorized by the company board of directors on march 21, 2002 for the year ended december 31, 2002, the company repurchased 2.3 million shares of common stock totaling $50.2 million in conjunction with this program. accelerated stock repurchase agreements in may 2003, january 2003, and november 2002, the company entered into asr agreements to facilitate the repurchase of shares of its common stock. as of december 31, 2003, the company had completed all of its settlement obligations under these asr agreements. the company repurchased 3.2 million, 1.7 million, and 2.3 million shares of its common stock from the counterparties for $79.9 million, $29.9 million, and $40.0 million under the asr agreements of may 2003, january 2003, and november 2002, respectively. each of these agreements had five-year terms. during the term of the asr agreements, the company had an obligation to sell shares to the counterparty equal to the number of shares the company purchased from them at the outset of the agreement. the company had the option to fulfill its obligation either by buying shares in the open market and selling those shares to the counterparty at forward prices specified in the agreement or by issuing new shares and remitting them to the counterparty in exchange for the forward price. the forward price was based on a formula that began with the price of the initial purchase and was adjusted for fees and commissions and the length of time from the initial purchase to when shares were sold or delivered to the counterparty. the company had complete discretion as to the timing and number of shares that the company sold to the counterparty subject to a cumulative minimum of 20.0% by the end of each year of the agreement. under the asr agreements, if the company was required to pay the counterparty and elected to settle its obligation in shares, the number of shares to be issued by the company was capped. the company accounted for initial payment under the asr agreements as a purchase of treasury stock, and the company subsequently retired those shares. prior to june 15, 2003, the effective date of sfas no. 150, the company accounted for asr agreements under eitf 99-7, accounting for an accelerated share repurchase program (eitf 99-7). eitf 99-7 provided that an entity should account for an accelerated stock repurchase program as two separate transactions: (a) as shares of common stock acquired in a treasury stock transaction recorded on the acquisition date and (b) as a forward contract indexed to its own common stock. the forward contract was accounted for in accordance with the provisions of 125 eitf 00-19. as of december 31, 2004, the company had fulfilled all its obligations under the asr agreements in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 150. 18. income taxes the components of the company provision for income taxes for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, consisted of the following. the amount of current taxes receivable was $2.1 million as at december 31, 2004 and $3.5 million as of december 31, 2003. (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 current provision: federal $ 24,207 $ 14,418 $ 17,851 state 8,975 5,560 7,230 deferred expense (benefit): federal 3,940 (12,536 ) 5,048 state 1,632 (3,268 ) (2,368 ) income tax expense $ 38,754 $ 4,174 $ 27,761 the reconciliation between the federal statutory income tax rate and the company effective income tax rate for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, were as follows: (as restated) years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 federal statutory income tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % meals and entertainment 0.7 3.9 0.8 state income taxes, net of the federal tax effect 6.7 8.7 3.8 tax-exempt interest income (1.7 ) (12.5 ) (2.8 ) low-income housing tax credit (2.1 ) (11.8 ) (2.6 ) other-net (0.8 ) 0.9 (0.5 ) effective income tax rate 37.8 % 24.2 % 33.7 % deferred tax assets (liabilities) at december 31, 2004 and 2003, consisted of the following: (as restated) december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 deferred tax assets: allowance for loan and lease losses $ 21,864 $ 26,113 other accruals not currently deductible 8,685 7,308 state income taxes 1,738 1,271 premises and equipment and other intangibles 5,084 4,638 derivative equity warrant assets 526 goodwill 15,450 17,632 investments 1,244 other 1,215 1,096 deferred tax assets 54,562 59,302 deferred tax liabilities: loan fee income (10,117 ) (7,902 ) derivative equity warrant assets (2,229 ) net unrealized gains on afs investment securities (920 ) (3,947 ) investments (846 ) deferred tax liabilities (11,883 ) (14,078 ) net deferred tax assets $ 42,679 $ 45,224 126 the company believes a valuation allowance is not needed to reduce the deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized through recovery of taxes previously paid and/or future taxable income. 19. employee benefit plans the company has the following employee benefit plans: (i) equity incentive plans, (ii) incentive compensation plan, (iii) direct drive incentive compensation plan, (iv) silicon valley bank 401(k) and employee stock ownership plan, (v) employee stock purchase plan, (vi) employee home ownership plan, (vii) svb qualified investors fund llc, and (viii) deferred compensation plan. equity incentive plans each of the company active stock option plans has been approved by its stockholders. the company 1997 equity incentive plan (the 1997 plan), provides for the grant of incentive stock options to employees and nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock purchase awards, stock bonuses, and restricted stock units (collectively stock awards) to employees, directors and consultants. the 1997 plan provides a means by which selected employees and directors of, and consultants to, the company and its affiliates, may be given an opportunity to purchase shares of the company common stock at a price not less than 100% of the fair market value of the common stock on the date the option is granted for incentive and nonstatutory stock or receive cash based on stock appreciation. options may vest over various periods not in excess of five years from the date of grant and expire five to ten years from the date of grant. the company, by means of the 1997 plan, seeks to retain the services of persons who are now employees and directors of, or consultants to, the company or its affiliates; to secure and retain the services of new employees, directors, and consultants; and to provide incentives for such persons to exert maximum efforts for the success of the company and its affiliates. the table below provides stock option information related to the 1989 stock option plan and the 1997 plan for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002: years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 shares weighted- average exercise price shares weighted- average exercise price shares weighted- average exercise price outstanding at beginning of year 6,659,967 $ 24.58 6,234,638 $ 22.63 5,174,741 $ 20.80 granted 1,326,899 37.28 1,780,162 29.11 2,147,709 24.73 exercised (981,455 ) 20.98 (728,277 ) 15.56 (562,982 ) 11.90 forfeited (358,651 ) 28.95 (626,556 ) 27.13 (524,830 ) 26.49 outstanding at end of year 6,646,760 27.40 6,659,967 24.58 6,234,638 22.63 exercisable at end of year 3,170,309 $ 23.54 2,764,034 $ 21.18 2,184,186 $ 19.05 the following table summarizes information regarding stock options outstanding as of december 31, 2004: outstanding options vested options ranges of exercise prices shares weighted- average remaining contractual life in years weighted- average exercise price shares weighted- average exercise price $ 8.25 - $15.15 724,456 3.56 $ 10.78 685,960 $ 10.53 16.50 - 22.50 877,022 7.24 19.03 412,520 18.91 22.97 - 25.17 1,228,276 4.38 24.50 676,645 24.04 25.29 - 26.06 752,580 6.50 26.01 527,687 26.02 26.24 - 31.29 799,627 6.91 30.52 425,411 30.40 31.40 - 35.04 212,158 5.59 33.17 157,543 33.10 35.26 - 35.26 688,239 3.84 35.26 168,543 35.26 35.54 - 36.25 667,272 6.24 35.56 15,250 36.17 36.28 - 49.50 674,130 6.58 40.55 77,750 48.26 51.69 - 58.25 23,000 5.73 53.12 23,000 53.12 $ 8.25 - $58.25 6,646,760 5.61 $ 27.41 3,170,309 $ 23.54 127 at december 31, 2004, options for 1,449,778 shares were available for future grant under the 1997 plan. the company 1989 stock option plan expired in 1999. no future grants will be made under the 1989 plan. the 1997 plan provides for the granting of shares of the company common stock to directors, employees, and consultants. shares granted under this plan may be subject to certain vesting requirements and resale restrictions ( restricted stock ). for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, the company issued 156,025 shares of restricted stock at a weighted-average fair value of $36.807 per share and 116,777 shares at a weighted-average fair value of $17.24 per share, respectively. for the year ended december 31, 2002, the company did not issue restricted stock. at december 31, 2004, there were 251,113 shares of restricted stock outstanding, the vesting of these shares occurs on various dates through the years ending december 31, 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008. the company recognized $3.6 million (as restated), $1.1 million and $0.8 million in employee and non-employee stock-based compensation costs resulting from the amortization of unearned compensation related to restricted stock and other miscellaneous employee and non-employee stock awards for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. if compensation cost related to both the company stock option awards to employees and directors and to the espp had been determined under the fair value method prescribed under sfas no. 123, the company net income would have been reduced by $19.8 million, $19.0 million and $18.0 million (as restated), for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. the fair value of the stock option grants used in determining the pro forma net income and the basic and diluted earnings per share amounts were estimated using the black-scholes single option-pricing model with the following average assumptions for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002: (as restated) years ended december 31, 2004 2003 2002 expected term of options in years 4.7 4.0 5.1 volatility of the company underlying common stock 63.6 % 70.6 % 74.9 % risk-free interest rate 3.58 % 2.98 % 3.75 % dividend yield % % % weighted average fair value $ 20.40 $ 15.82 $ 15.86 the expected term was based on the implied term of the stock options using a lattice option-pricing model with early exercise factors based on historic employee exercise behavior. the expected volatility was calculated as the historical volatility of the company common stock using a five-year term. the expected risk-free interest rate was based on the yields of treasury securities, as reported by the federal reserve bank of new york, with maturities equal to the expected term of the employee stock options. incentive compensation plan incentive compensation plans (icp) are bonus programs paid based on the financial results of various business units of the company. awards are distributed based on management assessment of individual employee performance. the company contributions to icp were $28.6 million, $12.6 million, and $5.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. direct drive incentive compensation plan direct drive incentive compensation plan (direct drive) is a semiannual sales incentive program. payments are based on sales teams performance to predetermined financial targets. actual awards for each sales team member under direct drive is based on (i) the actual results and financial performance of the company with respect to the gross profit targets, (ii) the sales team payout targets, and (iii) the sales team member sales position and team payout allocation. additionally, sales team members may receive a discretionary award based on management assessment of such member contributions and performance during the applicable fiscal year, regardless of achievement of team gross profit targets. the company contributions to direct drive were $5.1 million, $3.5 million and $0.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 128 silicon valley bank 401(k) and employee stock ownership plan the silicon valley bank 401(k) (the 401(k) plan) and employee stock ownership (esop) plan (collectively referred to as the plan) is a combined 401(k) tax-deferred savings plan and employee stock ownership plan in which all regular employees of the company are eligible to participate. effective january 1, 2003, employees participating in the 401(k) plan are allowed to contribute up to 75% of their pre-tax compensation as defined in the plan, up to the maximum amount allowable under federal income tax regulations of $13,000 and $12,000 for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. effective january 1, 2003, the company matches the employee contributions dollar-for-dollar, up to 5% of the employee pre-tax compensation as defined in the plan. the company matching contributions vest immediately. prior to january 1, 2003, the company matched up to $1,000 of an employee contributions per annum, which vested at 20% per year. the company matching 401(k) plan contributions totaled $3.6 million, $3.0 million, and $0.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. the amount of salary deferred is not subject to federal or state income taxes at the time of deferral. effective december 31, 2002, the company merged the silicon valley bank money purchase pension plan (the mpp plan) balances into the 401(k) plan, which continued to vest at 20% per year. the company has not made contributions towards the mpp plan for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, and will not in the future. prior to december 31, 2002, the mpp plan guaranteed a quarterly contribution to all individuals who were employed by the company on the first and last day of a fiscal quarter. the company contributed cash in an amount equal to 5.0% of an eligible employee quarterly base salary, less internal revenue code (irc) section 401(k) and section 125 deferrals. the company contributions to the mpp plan totaled $3.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2002. discretionary esop contributions, based on the company net income, are made by the company to all eligible individuals employed by the company on the last day of the fiscal year. the company may elect to contribute cash, or the company common stock, in an amount not exceeding 10.0% of the employee eligible compensation earned in the fiscal year. the esop contributions vest in equal annual increments over five years. forfeited balances of terminated participants nonvested accounts are used first to restore previously forfeited amounts of rehired participants accounts and are then used to pay administrative expenses and to reduce future company contributions to the plan. forfeited nonvested accounts totaled $0.8 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003. during 2004, company contributions to the plan were reduced by $0.2 million from forfeited nonvested accounts, and administrative expenses totaling $0.1 million were paid from the forfeited nonvested accounts. the company contributions to the esop totaled $6.8 million, $3.8 million and $0.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. at december 31, 2004, the esop owned 1,051,006 shares of the company common stock. all shares held by the esop are treated as outstanding shares in both the company basic and diluted earnings per share computations. at december 31, 2004, the company had not committed any shares to the esop program. the company amended the plan in 2004 and added a profit sharing account, which is employee directed. discretionary profit sharing contributions, subject to determination by the company, will be made to all eligible individuals who are employed by the company on the last day of the fiscal year. the company had not made any contributions in 2004 and prior years. employee stock purchase plan the company maintains an employee stock purchase plan (espp) under which participating employees may annually contribute up to 10% of their gross compensation to purchase shares of the company common stock at 85% of its fair market value at either the beginning or end of each six-month offering period, whichever price is less. all employees of the company are eligible to participate in the espp. eligible employees of the company become plan participants on the first day of hire. to be eligible, an employee must, among other requirements, be age 18 or above and complete at least one hour of service as an employee of the company or any of its affiliates. the espp is non-compensatory to the employees and results in no expense to the company under apb 25. for periods beginning after june 15, 2005, the company will be required to recognize compensation expense in accordance with sfas 123r. see recent accounting pronouncements in note 2 summary of significant accounting policies. for the first six-month offering period of 2004, 66,012 shares of the company common stock were issued at $31.314 per share, while 50,116 shares of the company common stock were issued at $33.32 per share for the second six-month offering period of 2004. at december 31, 2004, a total of 1,099,945 shares of the company common stock were reserved for future issuance under the espp. 129 employee home ownership plan in 2002, the company approved the employee home ownership plan (ehop), which is a benefit plan that provides for the issuance of mortgage loans at favorable interest rates to eligible employees. eligible employees may apply for a fixed-rate mortgage which is amortized over 30 years and is due and payable in either five or seven years on their primary residence. applicants must qualify for a loan through the usual mortgage review and approval process, which is typical of industry standards. the maximum loan amount cannot be greater than 80.0% of the lesser of the purchase price or the appraised value. the interest rate on the note is written at the then market rate for five year (5/1) or seven year (7/1) mortgage loans as determined by the company. however, provided that the applicant continues to meet all the eligibility requirements, including employment at the company, the actual rate charged to the borrower shall be 2.0% below the market rate. the loan rate shall not be less than 25 basis points over the greater of either the five-year treasury note rate or the monthly applicable federal rate for medium-term loans as published by the internal revenue service. the loan rate will be fixed at the time of approval and locked for 30 days. the company recognizes as compensation expense the aggregate dollar amount by which interest charged to an employee under the ehop is less than the market rate of interest that would be charged for a comparable loan. however, loans under the ehop typically contain contractual provisions that limit the extent of this discrepancy, if any. as a consequence, compensation expense attributable to loans issued under the ehop for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003 was immaterial. the following table summarizes the activities of ehop loans to all employees for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003: years ended december 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) balance at beginning of year $ 15,514 $ 8,959 loan proceeds disbursed for ehop 16,068 13,445 loan repayments for ehop (6,777 ) (6,890 ) balance at end of year $ 24,805 $ 15,514 svb qualified investors fund llc in late 2000, the company formed svb qualified investor fund llc, on behalf of certain eligible employees. the fund was initially fully capitalized by equity contributions by employees. the funds principal purpose is to invest in a select number of private equity funds managed primarily by svb financial or its affiliates. the fund will continue until december 12, 2013, unless terminated sooner or extended in accordance with the fund operating agreement. the company incurred fund administration costs of approximately $0.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2004 and $0.2 million for each of the years ended december 31, 2003 and 2002. deferred compensation plan on october 20, 2004, the compensation committee of the board of directors of the company approved the silicon valley bank deferred compensation plan (the dc plan). the dc plan became effective on january 1, 2005. under the dc plan, eligible employees of the company may elect to defer up to 25% of their base salary and/or up to 100% of any bonus payment to which they are entitled, for a period of twelve consecutive months, beginning january 1 and ending december 31. executive officers and certain senior managers are eligible to participate in the dc plan, and any amounts deferred under the dc plan will be invested and administered by the company (or such person as the company designates). 20. related parties loan transactions prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act, the board of the bank adopted a policy in november 2001 to permit loans to be made to directors or to a company owned or controlled by a director ( director loans ). director loans would qualify for an exemption from section 402 of the sarbanes-oxley act as they would be made out of the bank and would be subject to the insider lending restrictions of section 22(h) of the federal reserve act. the director loans policy authorizes the executive committee of the board, along with the chief credit officer, to approve director loans. under the director loans policy, an outside credit review firm will be responsible for grading a director loan throughout its term. if the credit review firm classifies a director loan as special mention (as defined in the bank existing loan policy), such director is required to discuss the director plans to bring the loan back to pass status 130 with the executive committee within thirty days of the downgrade of the loan. the policy further provides that if a director loan is classified as substandard (as defined in the bank existing loan policy) by the outside credit review firm, such director will have thirty days (with the executive committee having the authority to give the director up to sixty days) to upgrade the loan to pass status or resign from the board. the company believes that all extensions of credit included in such transactions will be made in compliance with applicable laws and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates, collateral and repayment terms, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons of similar creditworthiness and, in the opinion of the board of directors of the bank, will not involve more than a normal risk of collectibility or default or present any other unfavorable features. in august 2000, the bank extended a line of credit in the amount of $0.03 million to gregory and michaela rodeno, dba villa ragazzi. ms. rodeno is a director of the company, and mr. rodeno is her husband. no amounts were outstanding under the line during 2004. the line of credit expired in october 2004 and had an interest rate of the bank prime rate, plus 150 basis points. in december 2000, the bank made a loan in the amount of $1.0 million to st. supery vineyards and winery. the loan amount was increased to $3.0 million in october 2001, further increased to $4.0 million in february 2002, and further increased to $6.0 million in february 2003. michaela rodeno, a director of the company, is the chief executive officer of st. supery. the loan matured in november 2004, with interest payable monthly, but was paid off in full in september 2004. the loan was secured by the accounts receivable and inventory of st. supery. the largest principal amount outstanding during 2004 was $5.0 million. the loan had an interest rate at the bank prime rate, less 37.5 basis points. in august 2001, the company made an interest-free loan in the amount of $0.5 million to marc verissimo, chief strategy officer, to assist in the purchase of his primary residence. the loan matures in march 2006 and is unsecured. the largest principal amount outstanding during 2004 (and the principal amount outstanding on december 31, 2004) was $0.5 million. in september 2001, the bank made a loan in the amount of $8.0 million to h.a. schupf &amp; co., llc for the purchase of the company back from reich and tang asset management lp, an investment adviser. in may 2004, the loan was increased to $10.9 million. the loan matures in june 2007, with interest payable monthly, but was paid off in full in december 2004. the loan was secured by the assets of h.a. schupf &amp; co., llc. the largest principal amount outstanding during 2004 was $10.9 million. the loan bears an interest rate of the bank prime rate, and is personally guaranteed by mr. h.a. schupf, the managing member of h.a. schupf and co., llc. at december 31, 2004, h.a. schupf &amp; co., llc is a principal stockholder of the company and owned over 10% of the company outstanding stock as of december 31, 2004. in december 2003, the bank made a loan in the amount of $2.0 million to national contract associates, inc. the loan matured in december 2004 but was extended for one year to december 2005, with interest payable monthly. the largest principal amount outstanding during 2004 was $1.7 million. the loan bears an interest rate of the bank prime rate, plus 200 basis points. the loan is personally guaranteed by mr. h.a. schupf, whose son-in-law is an officer of the borrower. in november 2000, the bank made a loan in the amount of $32.3 million to nea partners, a venture firm of which mr. kramlich, a director of the company, is a general partner and co-founder. the loan matured in january 2005, with interest payable monthly, but was paid off in full in august 2004. the largest outstanding balance during 2004 was $21.8 million. the loan had an interest rate of the bank prime rate, plus 100 basis points. interest and fee income related to this loan was $1.0 million, $1.9 million and $2.1 million, for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. in december 2004, the bank made a loan in the amount of $1.3 million to deer vi &amp; co, llc. the loan was unsecured and was fully guaranteed by deer management co., llc, with which mr. felda hardymon, a director of the company, is a member with a non-voting interest. all advances under the loan were repaid in january 2005, and the loan matured in september 2005, with interest payable quarterly. the largest principal amount outstanding during 2004 was $1.1 million. the interest rate for the loan was the bank prime rate, less 50 basis points. during 2004, the bank made loans to certain companies in which certain venture funds with which some of its directors are affiliated, are beneficial owners of ten percent or more of the equity securities of such companies. such loans: (a) were made in the ordinary course of business, (b) were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons, and (c) did not involve more than the normal risk of collectibility or present other unfavorable features. 131 fund investments in 2000, the company created two venture investment funds: the svb investor strategic investors fund, lp ( sif ) and the silicon valley bancventures, lp ( svbv ). sif is a $121.8 million venture fund of funds that invests in other venture funds and svbv is a $56.1 million direct equity investment fund that invests in privately-held companies. both funds are managed by their respective general partners, which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company and hold a minority interest in the respective funds. certain of the company directors have also invested in the funds and hold a minority interest: messrs. hardymon (through his family partnership) ($0.9 million), burns ($0.5 million) and porter ($0.5 million) are limited partners of sif, and messrs. hardymon (through a family limited partnership) ($1.5 million), burns ($0.3 million) and kramlich ($1.0 million) are limited partners of svbv. mr. h.a. schupf, a principal stockholder of the company, is also a limited partner of svbv ($0.5 million). in 2000, the company created the svb qualified investor fund llc ( qif ), a $7.6 million investment fund for employees that met certain eligibility requirements. to be eligible to participate in qif, an employee must be of a certain grade level and must be a qualified investor, as such term is defined by the sec. qif was initially capitalized by commitments and contributions from certain eligible employees including the company senior management. all employee participants are required to invest in this fund with their own money, but the company manages the fund and pays all administrative costs associated with the fund. qif principal purpose is to invest in a select number of private equity funds managed primarily by the company or its affiliates. messrs. wilcox, becker, hardin, jenkins-stark, kellogg, verissimo and witte are current participants in qif. in 2003, gold hill venture lending 03, lp, a venture debt fund, and certain affiliated funds (the gold hill funds ) were created. the total size of the gold hill funds is approximately $214.1 million. the company is a controlling member of the general partner of the gold hill funds, as well as a limited partner of the gold hill funds. the combined commitment total of the company in the general partner and the gold hill funds is $20 million. certain of the company directors are also limited partners of the gold hill funds and hold a minority interest: mr. hardymon ($2.5 million) and ms. rodeno ($0.2 million). other transactions in connection with the bank employee relocation policy and the hiring of david webb as the company chief information officer, the former residence of mr. webb in new jersey was purchased in august 2004 for $1,565,200 by americorp, inc., a relocation management firm with which the bank has a separate relocation service agreement. under the agreement, the bank funds the initial purchase of the residence and reimburses americorp for its related expenses, however americorp holds legal title and resells the residence. any financial gain or loss with respect to such resale is attributed to the bank. other relationships messrs. dunbar and kramlich, directors of the company, served as advisory directors since january 2001 and july 2003, respectively. additionally, certain borrowings described under note 13 borrowings are due to the selling partners of svb alliant (alliant partners), who became employees of the company. 21. off-balance sheet arrangements, guarantees, and other commitments in the normal course of business, the company uses financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk to meet the financing needs of its customers. these financial instruments include commitments to extend credit, commercial and standby letters of credit, foreign exchange options, foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps. these instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit risk. credit risk is defined as the possibility of sustaining a loss because other parties to the financial instrument fail to perform in accordance with the terms of the contract. commitments to extend credit a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the agreement. such commitments generally have fixed expiration dates, or other termination clauses, and usually require a fee paid by the client upon the company issuing the commitment. commitments which are available for funding, due to clients meeting all collateral, compliance, and financial covenants required under loan commitment 132 agreements, totaled $2.7 billion and $1.7 billion at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. out of these available commitment balances, the fixed-rate commitments were $257.2 million and $167.9 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the company exposure arising from interest rate risk associated with fixed-rate loan commitments is not considered material. commitments which are unavailable for funding, due to clients not meeting all collateral, compliance, and financial covenants required under loan commitment agreements, totaled $0.7 billion and $1.2 billion at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the company potential exposure to credit loss, in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument, is the contractual amount of the available unused loan commitment. the company uses the same credit approval and monitoring process in extending loan commitments as it does in making loans. the actual liquidity needs or the credit risk that the company has experienced have historically been lower than the contractual amount of commitments to extend credit because a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. the company evaluates each potential borrower and the necessary collateral on an individual basis. the type of collateral varies, but may include real property, bank deposits, or business and personal assets. the potential credit risk associated with these commitments is considered in management evaluation of the adequacy of the liability for unfunded credit commitments. additionally, the company had aggregate maximum lending limits of $478.7 million as of december 31, 2004 related to its accounts receivable factoring arrangements. the company extends credit under accounts receivable factoring arrangements when its clients sales invoices are deemed credit worthy under existing underwriting practices. commercial and standby letters of credits commercial and standby letters of credit represent conditional commitments issued by the company on behalf of a client to guarantee the performance of the client to a third party when certain specified future events have occurred. commercial letters of credit are issued primarily for inventory purchases by client and are typically short-term in nature. the company provides two types of standby letter of credit: performance and financial standby letter of credits. performance standby letters of credit are issued to guarantee the performance of a client to a third party when certain specified future events have occurred. performance standby letters of credit are primarily used to support performance instruments such as bid bonds, performance bonds, lease obligations, repayment of loans, and past due notices. financial standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the company to guarantee the payment by a client to a third party (beneficiary). financial standby letters of credit are primarily used to support many types of domestic and international payments. these standby letters of credit have fixed expiration dates and generally require a fee paid by a client at the time the company issues the commitment. fees generated from these standby letters of credit are recognized in noninterest income over the commitment period using the straight-line method. the credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved with extending loan commitments to clients, and accordingly, the company uses a credit evaluation process and collateral requirements similar to those for loan commitments. the company standby letters of credit often are cash secured by its clients. the actual liquidity needs or the credit risk that the company has experienced historically have been lower than the contractual amount of letters of credit issued because a significant portion of these conditional commitments expire without being drawn upon. obligation under guarantees the table below summarizes the company standby letter of credits at december 31, 2004. the maximum potential amount of future payments represents the amount that could be remitted under the standby letters of credit if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties, without consideration of possible recoveries under recourse provisions or from the collateral held or pledged. expires in one year or less expires after one year total amount outstanding maximum amount of future payments (dollars in thousands) financial standby $ 561,994 $ 56,990 $ 618,984 $ 618,984 commercial standby 10,289 10,289 10,289 performance standby 7,423 2,870 10,293 10,293 total $ 579,706 $ 59,860 $ 639,566 $ 639,566 at december 31, 2004, the carrying amount of the liabilities related to financial and performance standby letters of credit was approximately $3.4 million. at december 31, 2004, cash and investment securities collateral available to the company to reimburse losses under financial and performance standby letters of credits was $284.8 million. 133 in addition to standby letter of credit guarantees, the company issues additional guarantees as off-balance sheet arrangements. as of december 31, 2004, those guarantees include the following: the bank, as a financial provider, routinely guarantees credit cards for some of its customers which have been provided by an unaffiliated financial institution. the bank has recourse against the customer for any amount it is required to pay to a third party in the event of default under these arrangements. these guarantees are subject to the same credit policies, underwriting standards and approval process as loans made by the bank. certain of these amounts are secured by certificates of deposit and other assets which the bank has rights to in the event of nonperformance by the customers. the total amount of this guarantee was $44.5 million at december 31, 2004. it is not considered probable that material losses would be incurred by the bank as a result of these arrangements. the company may be required to make contingent payments to the former owners of woodside asset management based on their future revenue growth. during 2004, the company paid one earn-out payment of $338,000 to the former owners of woodside asset management. as of december 31, 2004, under the acquisition agreement, the maximum future gross earn-out payments to woodside asset management former owners are $1.6 million. commitments to invest in venture capital funds the company makes commitments to venture capital fund investments, which in turn make investments in privately held companies. commitments to invest in these funds are generally made up to a ten-year period from the inception of the venture capital fund. the timing of future cash requirements to fund such commitments is generally dependent upon the venture capital investment cycle, the overall market conditions, and the nature and type of industry in which the privately held companies operate. as of december 31, 2004, the company had remaining unfunded commitments of $15.9 million to wholly owned venture capital fund investments and $39.6 million and $55.2 million to venture capital fund investments through the funds of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, respectively. the company has committed capital of $13.5 million to svb strategic investors fund, lp, representing an ownership interest of 11.1%. as of december 31, 2004, the remaining unfunded commitment to the fund was $5.7 million. the company also has committed capital of $15.0 million to svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, representing an ownership interest of 14.4%. as of december 31, 2004, the remaining unfunded commitment to the fund was $13.5 million. the company made a capital commitment of $6.0 million to its venture capital fund, silicon valley bancventures, lp in which the company has an ownership interest of 10.7%. the remaining unfunded commitment to the fund was $2.9 million as of december 31, 2004. the company made a capital commitment of $25.0 million to the venture debt fund, partners for growth, lp in which the company has an ownership interest of 53.2%. as of december 31, 2004, the remaining unfunded commitment to the fund was $20.3 million. in addition, the company has committed capital of $20.0 million to gold hill venture lending 03, lp in which the company has an ownership interest of 9.3%. the remaining unfunded commitment to the fund was $15.4 million. 22. fair value of financial instruments sfas no. 107, disclosures about fair value of financial instruments , requires that the company disclose estimated fair values for its financial instruments. fair value estimates, methods and assumptions, set forth below for the company financial instruments, are made solely to comply with the requirements of sfas no. 107. fair values are based on estimates or calculations at the transaction level using present value techniques in instances where quoted market prices are not available. because broadly traded markets do not exist for many of the company financial instruments, the fair value calculations attempt to incorporate the effect of current market conditions at a specific time. fair valuations are management estimates of the values, and they are calculated based on current pricing policies, the economic and competitive environment, the characteristics of the financial instruments, expected losses, and other such factors. these calculations are subjective in nature, involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment, and do not include tax ramifications; therefore, the results cannot be determined with precision or substantiated by comparison to independent markets, and they may not be realized in an actual sale or immediate settlement of the instruments. there may be inherent weaknesses in any calculation technique, and changes in the underlying assumptions used, including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, could significantly affect the results. for all of these reasons, the aggregation of the fair value calculations presented herein does not represent, and should not be construed to represent, the underlying value of the company. 134 the following describes the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments. cash and cash equivalents this category includes cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions, federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short term investment securities. the cash equivalents are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value due to original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less. for these short-term financial instruments, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value. investment securities at fair value for marketable investment securities classified as available-for-sale, fair values are based on quoted market prices provided by a known and reputable pricing service or dealer quotes. for the company venture capital fund, its funds of funds, svb strategic investors fund, lp and its venture debt funds, the company records the non-marketable venture capital fund investments and other private equity investments using investment company fair value accounting rules (see note 2 - significant accounting policies marketable equity securities). investment securities at cost the company records its wholly owned non-marketable venture capital fund investments and other private equity investments on a cost basis less any identified other than temporary impairment. loans the fair value of fixed and variable rate loans is estimated by discounting contractual cash flows using discount rates that reflect the company current pricing for loans and the forward yield curve. derivatives derivatives are comprised of derivative equity warrant assets and foreign exchange spot and forward and foreign currency option contracts. the company values the equity warrant assets using an option pricing model approach utilizing the several material assumptions, as described in note 2 significant accounting policies derivative financial instruments. deposits the fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, such as noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing checking accounts and money market accounts is equal to the amount payable on demand at the measurement date. the fair value of time deposits is estimated by discounting the balances using the company cost of borrowings and the forward yield curve over their remaining contractual term. borrowings the fair value of borrowings is estimated based on quoted market prices for the issues for which there is a market. otherwise, the fair value of borrowings is calculated by discounting the contractual cash flows using the forward yield curve. interest rate swap the fair value of the interest rate swap associated with the majority of the company 7.0% fixed rate, junior subordinated debentures is calculated based on market valuations obtained from the broker/dealer that is counterparty to the swap. off-balance sheet financial instruments the fair value of unfunded commitments to extend credit is estimated based on the average amount the company would receive or pay to execute a new agreement with identical terms, considering current interest rates and taking into account the remaining terms of the agreement and counterparties credit standing. letters of credit generally expire in 90 days or less, therefore their fair value was equivalent to the premium or fee received at december 31, 2004 and 2003, due to their short-term nature. commitments to extend credit and letters of credit typically result in loans with a market interest rate when funded. 135 limitations the information presented herein is based on pertinent information available to the company as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. although management is not aware of any factors that would significantly affect the estimated fair value amounts, such amounts have not been comprehensively revalued since the most recent year end, and the estimated fair values of these financial instruments may have changed significantly since that point in time. the estimated fair values of the company financial instruments at december 31, 2004 and 2003 are presented below. (as restated) december 31, 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) carrying amount estimated fair value carrying amount estimated fair value financial assets: cash and due from banks $ 284,208 $ 284,208 $ 252,521 $ 252,521 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities 343,010 343,010 582,792 582,792 investment securities available for sale 1,927,165 1,927,165 1,432,183 1,432,183 investment securities non-marketable securities, cost method 147,802 141,225 98,228 90,654 loans, net 2,270,975 2,304,502 1,937,284 2,011,592 derivatives 28,497 28,497 29,552 29,552 interest rate swap 49 49 (267 ) (267 ) financial liabilities: noninterest-bearing demand deposits 2,649,853 2,649,853 2,186,317 2,186,317 now deposits 32,009 32,009 20,897 20,897 money market deposits 1,206,078 1,206,078 1,080,559 1,080,559 time deposits 331,574 330,131 379,068 378,876 contingently convertible debt 146,740 205,863 145,797 178,707 junior subordinated debentures 49,421 50,206 49,652 51,031 other borrowings 9,820 9,849 17,961 18,372 off-balance sheet financial assets: commitments to extend credit $ 12,936 $ 7,671 23. regulatory matters the bank is subject to certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that it may declare without the prior approval of the federal reserve board and the california department of financial institutions. at december 31, 2004, none of the bank retained earnings were available for dividend declaration to the company without prior regulatory approval. the company and the bank are subject to capital adequacy guidelines issued by the federal reserve board. failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material impact on the company and/or the bank financial condition and results of operations. under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the company and the bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the company and the bank balance sheet items, as well as certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. the company and the bank capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. under these capital guidelines, the minimum total risk-based capital ratio and tier 1 risk-based capital ratio requirements are 10.0% and 6.0%, respectively, of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet items for a well-capitalized depository institution. the federal reserve board has also established minimum capital leverage ratio guidelines for state member banks. the ratio is determined using tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets. the guidelines require a minimum of 5.0% for a well-capitalized depository institution. 136 the following table presents the capital ratios for the company and the bank, as compared to the minimum regulatory capital requirements for an adequately capitalized depository institution, as of december 31, 2004 and 2003: (as restated) (dollars in thousands) actual ratio actual amount capital adequacy minimum ratio capital adequacy minimum capital requirement as of december 31, 2004: total risk-based capital ratio: company 16.09 % $ 695,377 8.0 % $ 345,832 bank 13.65 % $ 563,682 8.0 % $ 330,277 tier 1 risk-based capital ratio: company 12.75 % $ 551,338 4.0 % $ 172,916 bank 12.41 % $ 512,355 4.0 % $ 165,138 tier 1 leverage ratio: company 11.17 % $ 551,338 4.0 % $ 197,354 bank 10.82 % $ 512,355 4.0 % $ 189,440 as of december 31, 2003: total risk-based capital ratio: company 16.83 % $ 604,598 8.0 % $ 287,458 bank 14.38 % $ 494,446 8.0 % $ 275,060 tier 1 risk-based capital ratio: company 12.23 % $ 439,436 4.0 % $ 143,729 bank 13.13 % $ 451,473 4.0 % $ 137,530 tier 1 leverage ratio: company 10.62 % $ 439,436 4.0 % $ 165,486 bank 11.35 % $ 451,473 4.0 % $ 159,168 137 24. stockholders rights plan on october 22, 1998, the company board of directors (the board ) approved and adopted a stockholders rights plan (the rights plan ) to, among other things, protect the company stockholders from coercive takeover tactics. on november 6, 2003, the board approved and adopted amendment no. 1 to the rights plan agreement to increase from 10% to 15% the minimum percentage of common shares that any person shall beneficially own to qualify as an acquiring person for purposes of triggering the stockholders rights under the rights plan. on january 29, 2004, the board approved and adopted an amended and restated rights plan (the amended and restated rights plan ), which supersedes and replaces in entirety the rights plan, and was later amended on august 2, 2004, to change the expiration date of the plan from january 31, 2014 to january 31, 2008. the following summary of the rights and the amended and restated rights plan is a general description only and is subject to the detailed terms and conditions of the amended and restated rights plan, a copy of which is attached as exhibits 4.12 and 4.13 to the company amended and restated registration statement on form 8-a/a, filed with the securities and exchange commission on february 27, 2004 and august 3, 2004, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference. each capitalized term used but not defined below has the meaning ascribed to such term in the amended and restated rights plan. under the amended and restated rights plan, each stockholder of record on november 9, 1998 received a dividend of one right (a right ) for each outstanding share of common stock of the company. the rights are attached to, and presently only traded with, shares of the company common stock and are not currently exercisable. except as specified below, upon becoming exercisable, each right will entitle the holder to purchase from the company 1/1000th of a share of the company series a participating preferred stock at a price of $100.00 per share. the rights will become exercisable and begin to trade separately from shares of the company common stock upon the earlier of: (i) the tenth (10th) business day (or such later date as may be determined by action of the company board of directors) following a public announcement that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of the company common stock, or (ii) the close of business on the tenth (10th) business day (or such later date as may be determined by action of the company board of directors) following the commencement of, or announcement of a tender offer or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of the company common stock. unless the rights are earlier redeemed, in the event that an a person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of the company common stock, then each right which has not theretofore been exercised (other than the rights beneficially owned by the acquiring person, which will thereafter be void) will thereafter entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, common shares having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. similarly, unless the rights are earlier redeemed, in the event that a person or group becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of the company common stock, (i) the company is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction, or (ii) 50% or more of the company consolidated assets or earning power are sold (other than in transactions in the ordinary course of business), then each right which has not theretofore been exercised (other than the rights beneficially owned by the acquiring person, which will thereafter be void) will thereafter entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. the company board of directors has the option any time after a person or group becomes a 15% holder of the outstanding shares of the company common stock to exchange all or part of the rights (other than rights held by the acquiring person) for shares of common stock of the company provided that the company does not make such an exchange after the person becomes the beneficial owner of 50% or more of the company outstanding common stock. at any time on or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the fifth day following a public announcement that a person or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding common shares (or such later date as may be determined by action of the company board of directors and publicly announced by the company) and (ii) january 31, 2008, the company may redeem the rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.001 per right, subject to adjustment. 25. segment reporting in accordance with sfas no. 131, disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information, the company reports segment information based on the management approach. the management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of the company reportable segments. 138 the company is organized into four lines of banking and financial services for management reporting: commercial banking, svb capital, svb alliant, and private client services and other. these operating segments are strategic units that offer different services to different clients. the segments are managed separately because they appeal to different markets and, accordingly, require different strategies. the results of operating segments are based on the company internal profitability reporting process. this process assigns each client relationship in its entirety, to a primary operating segment. the process assigns income and expenses to the operating segments according to the customer primary relationship designation. additionally, working capital and its associated costs are allocated to the operating segments on an economic basis, treating each operating segment as if it were an independent entity. unlike financial reporting, which benefits from the comprehensive structure provided by generally accepted accounting principles of the united states of america, the internal profitability reporting process is highly subjective, as there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management reporting. the management reporting process measures the performance of operating segments based on the company internal operating structure and is not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial services companies. changes in the management structure and/or the allocation process have resulted, and may in the future result in, changes in the company allocation methodology as this process is under constant refinement. in the event of such changes, results for prior periods have been, and may be, restated for comparability. changes in an individual client primary relationship designation have resulted, and may in the future result, in certain client inclusion in different segments in different periods. as of december 31, 2004, based on the quantitative threshold for determining reportable segments as required by sfas no. 131, the company reportable segments are: commercial banking, svb capital, and svb alliant. private client services does not meet the separate reporting thresholds as defined by sfas no. 131 and as such, has been combined with other business services for segment reporting purposes. commercial banking provides solutions to the needs of the company commercial clients in the technology, life science, and premium wine industry niches, through the company lending, cash and deposit management, and global banking and trade products and services. lending products and services provide the company commercial clients with loans and other credit facilities, most often secured by the company clients assets. lending products and services include traditional term loans, equipment loans, revolving lines of credit, accounts-receivable based lines of credit, asset-based loans, real estate loans, vineyard development loans, and financing of affordable housing projects. the company often obtains warrants to purchase an equity position in a client company stock in consideration for providing credit facilities and less frequently for the provision of certain other associated lending services. within the commercial banking segment, the cash management services unit provides deposit account and cash management products and services, providing the company commercial clients with short and long-term cash management solutions. deposit account products and services include traditional deposit and checking accounts, certificates of deposit, and money market accounts. in connection with deposit accounts, the company also provides lockbox and merchant services that facilitate quicker depositing of checks and other payments to clients accounts. cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated clearing house (ach) services to enable clients to transfer funds quickly from their deposit accounts. additionally, cash management products and services include collection services, disbursement services, electronic funds transfers (including ach services), and online banking through svbeconnect. within the commercial banking segment, the international services unit provides global trade products and services, to facilitate the company clients global finance and business needs. global banking and trade products and services include foreign exchange services that empower commercial clients to manage their foreign currency risks through purchases and sales of currencies on the global inter-bank market. also included are export trade finance services and products, including a variety of loans and credit facilities guaranteed by the export-import bank of the united states to facilitate the company clients international trade, as well as a variety of letters of credit, including export import, and standby letters of credit to enable clients to ship and receive goods globally. additionally, included are products and services in international cash management. within the commercial banking segment, silicon valley bank provides investment and advisory services through its broker-dealer subsidiary svb securities. these services, which enable the company clients to manage their assets better, include mutual funds, fixed income securities, and investment reporting and monitoring. within the commercial banking segment, silicon valley bank actively manages commercial client investment portfolios through svb asset management, one of its registered investment advisor subsidiaries, by providing the company commercial clients with customized cash and investment portfolio management. svb capital focuses on the business needs of the company venture capital and private equity clients while establishing and maintaining relationships with those firms domestically and internationally. through this segment, silicon valley bank 139 provides banking services and financial solutions, including traditional deposit and checking accounts, loans, letters of credit, and cash management services. svb capital also makes investments in venture capital and other private equity firms, and in companies in the niches the company serves. the segment also manages three venture funds that are consolidated into the company financial statements: svb strategic investors fund, lp and svb strategic investors fund ii, lp, which are funds of funds that invest in other venture funds, and silicon valley bancventures, lp, a direct equity venture fund that invests in privately held technology and life-sciences companies. this segment also includes an interest in partners for growth, lp a fund that provides secured debt to emerging-growth clients, and an interest in gold hill venture lending partners 03, lp. svb capital, through the special equities group (a division of svb securities), also assists private equity firms with liquidating restricted securities following initial public offerings and mergers and acquisitions, through in-kind stock transactions, restricted stock sales, block trading, and special situation trading such as liquidation of foreign securities. svb alliant provides investment banking products and services including, merger and acquisition services, strategic alliances services, and specialized financial studies such as valuations and fairness opinions. in october 2003, the company enhanced the investment banking product set by launching a private capital group that provides advisory services for the private placement of securities. the private client services and other segment, is principally comprised of the private client services group and other business service units that are not part of the commercial bank, svb capital, or svb alliant segments. the private client services group provides a wide range of credit services to high-net-worth individuals using both long-term secured and short-term unsecured lines of credit. those products and services include home equity lines of credit, secured lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, airplane loans, and capital call lines of credit. the company also provides clients with deposit account products and services to meet cash management needs, including checking accounts, deposit accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit. through the company subsidiary, woodside asset management, inc., the company provides individual clients with personal investment advisory services, assisting clients in establishing and implementing investment strategies to meet their individual needs and goals. the private client services group was known as the private banking group until its name change in january 2004. the other business services units provide various products and services. the private client services and other segment also reflects those adjustments necessary to reconcile the results of operating segments based on the company internal profitability reporting process to the consolidated financial statements prepared in conformity with u.s generally accepted accounting principles applicable to financial statements. 140 the company primary source of revenue is from net interest income. accordingly, the company segments are reported using net interest income. the company also evaluates performance based on noninterest income and noninterest expense, which are presented as components of segment operating profit or loss. the company does not allocate income taxes to its segments. additionally, the company management reporting model is predicated on average asset balances, therefore it is not possible to provide period-end asset balances for segment reporting purposes. the company segment information at and for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, is as follows: (as restated) (dollars in thousands) commercial banking svb capital svb alliant private client services and other total year ended december 31, 2004 net interest income $ 170,123 $ 12,454 $ $ 47,712 $ 230,289 (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses(1) 2,356 (12,645 ) (10,289 ) noninterest income 66,092 14,774 22,025 4,071 106,962 noninterest expense excluding impairment of goodwill(2) 166,008 23,361 24,924 25,627 239,920 impairment of goodwill 1,910 1,910 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates 2,535 (5,625 ) (3,090 ) income (loss) before income tax expense(4) $ 67,851 $ 6,402 $ (2,899 ) $ 31,266 $ 102,620 total average loans $ 1,634,393 $ 77,422 $ $ 239,840 $ 1,951,655 total average assets(3) 3,628,630 594,361 73,441 476,477 4,772,909 total average deposits 3,230,509 560,496 114,403 3,905,408 goodwill at december 31, 2004 35,639 35,639 year ended december 31, 2003 net interest income $ 151,845 $ 11,799 $ $ 20,056 $ 183,700 (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses(1) (361 ) (9,531 ) (9,892 ) noninterest income 55,795 9,676 12,204 3,156 80,831 noninterest expense excluding impairment of goodwill(2) 141,125 17,364 12,772 30,635 201,896 impairment of goodwill 63,000 63,000 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates 1,992 5,697 7,689 income (loss) before income tax expense(4) $ 66,876 $ 6,103 $ (63,568 ) $ 7,805 $ 17,216 total average loans $ 1,506,055 $ 67,033 $ $ 224,902 $ 1,797,990 total average assets(3) 2,973,199 546,779 103,117 433,373 4,056,468 total average deposits 2,607,707 513,689 156,170 3,277,566 goodwill at december 31, 2003 35,639 1,910 37,549 year ended december 31, 2002 net interest income $ 153,965 $ 10,636 $ $ 27,666 $ 192,267 (recovery of) provision for loan and lease losses(1) 5,551 1 321 5,873 noninterest income (loss) 60,373 2,711 10, 873 (2,531 ) 71,426 noninterest expense excluding impairment of goodwill(2) 138,337 13,786 9,668 21,535 183,326 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates 2,029 5,738 7,767 income before income taxes(4) $ 70,450 $ 1,589 $ 1,205 $ 9,017 $ 82,261 total average loans $ 1,513,262 $ 62,530 $ $ 184,847 $ 1,760,639 total average assets(3) 2,847,229 498,679 164,879 385,083 3,895,870 total average deposits 2,445,618 460,185 157,653 3,063,456 goodwill at december 31, 2002 98,639 1,910 100,549 (1) for segment reporting purposes, the company reports net loan charge-offs as the provision for loan losses. thus, the other segment includes $(12.6) million $(9.6) million and $(0.1) million for the twelve-month periods ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, which represent the difference between net charge-offs and the provision for loan losses. (2) commercial banking segment includes direct depreciation and amortization of $1.4 million, $1.2 million and $1.1 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. due to the complexity of the company cost allocation model, it is not feasible to determine the exact amount of the remaining depreciation and amortization expense allocated to the various business segments (totaling approximately $7.4 million, $6.7 million and $6.9 million for the twelve months ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively). (3) total assets for the commercial banking, svb capital, and other segments equals the greater of total loans or the sum of total deposits and total stockholders equity for each segment. (4) the internal reporting model used by the company management to assess segment performance does not calculate tax expense by segment. the company effective tax rate is a reasonable approximation of the segment rates. 141 26. parent company only condensed financial information the condensed balance sheets of svb financial (parent company only) at december 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related condensed statements of income and condensed statements of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, are presented below. certain reclassifications have been made in order to conform to the current year presentation. such reclassifications had no effect on the results of operations or stockholders equity. condensed balance sheets (as restated) december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 assets: cash and due from banks $ 5,570 $ 2,224 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 69,176 45,629 investment securities 102,720 99,438 loans, net of unearned income(1) 1,570 5,178 other assets 38,127 42,502 investment in subsidiaries: bank subsidiary 499,317 450,295 nonbank subsidiaries 85,242 71,254 total assets $ 801,722 $ 716,520 liabilities and stockholders equity: contingently convertible debt (note 13) $ 146,740 $ 145,797 junior subordinated debentures (note 13) 49,470 49,118 other borrowings (note 13) 9,120 17,961 intercompany payables to silicon valley bank(2) 29,372 27,529 other liabilities 25,072 21,430 total liabilities 259,774 261,835 stockholders equity 541,948 454,685 total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 801,722 $ 716,520 (1) includes loans to related parties of $1.6 million and $1.3 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (2) the intercompany payables to silicon valley bank at december 31, 2004 and 2003 pertain to the aggregate grant date fair values of warrants obtained by silicon valley bank from july 1, 2001 through the balance sheet dates, net of payments for such. silicon valley bank often obtains derivative equity warrant assets to purchase a position in a client company stock in connection with providing credit facilities and less frequently for certain other business services. the parent purchases all equity warrant assets from silicon valley bank at grant date fair value (see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies-derivative financial instruments-derivatives). 142 condensed statements of income (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 interest income $ 2,965 $ 1,173 $ 2,523 interest expense (2,942 ) (6,070 ) (3,613 ) dividend income from bank subsidiary (3) 25,000 51,000 80,000 gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 2,749 8,208 (2,896 ) gains (losses) on investment securities, net (1,609 ) (3,296 ) (4,083 ) general and administrative expenses (7,805 ) (5,469 ) (4,396 ) income tax benefit 3,473 2,194 5,425 income before net (loss) income of subsidiaries 21,831 47,740 72,960 equity in undistributed net (loss) income of nonbank subsidiaries (2,755 ) (39,397 ) (663 ) equity in undistributed net income (loss) of bank subsidiary 44,790 4,699 (17,797 ) net income $ 63,866 $ 13,042 $ 54,500 (3) a part of the dividends paid in 2003 and the dividend paid in 2004 were in excess of the amount permitted under the california state department of financial institutions ( dfi ) guidelines. therefore, svb financial has been required by the dfi to return to silicon valley bank a portion of the 2003 dividend and the 2004 dividend the total amount returned totaled $28.4 million. at this time, silicon valley bank must obtain prior approval from the dfi before paying any further dividends to svb financial. 143 condensed statements of cash flows (as restated) years ended december 31, (dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 cash flows from operating activities: net income $ 63,866 $ 13,042 $ 54,500 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net (2,749 ) (8,208 ) 2,896 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 1,609 3,296 4,083 net income of bank subsidiary (44,790 ) (4,699 ) 17,797 net loss (income) of nonbank subsidiaries 2,755 39,397 663 decrease (increase) in other assets 7,124 2,431 (15,600 ) increase (decrease) in other liabilities 6,779 11,594 7,385 increase (decrease) in payable to bank 1,843 (18 ) 6,945 other, net 9,444 1,676 72 net cash provided by operating activities 45,881 58,511 78,741 cash flows used by investing activities: net decrease (increase) in investment securities (4,471 ) (56,269 ) 18,225 net decrease (increase) in loans 3,608 89 (2,919 ) investment in bank subsidiary (1,813 ) 218 (390 ) investment in nonbank subsidiaries (19,485 ) (723 ) (103,556 ) net cash used in investing activities (22,161 ) (56,685 ) (88,640 ) cash flows from financing activities: (decrease) increase in borrowings, net (9,333 ) (9,333 ) 26,524 proceeds from issuance of convertible notes and warrants, net of issuance costs of convertible note hedge 123,340 proceeds from issuance of 7.0% junior subordinated debentures, net of issuance costs 47,839 redemption of 8.25% junior subordinated debentures (41,237 ) return of capital from svb capital i 1,237 proceeds from issuance of common stock 25,084 14,364 9,769 repurchase of common stock (12,578 ) (148,092 ) (109,394 ) net cash (used) provided by financing activities 3,173 (11,882 ) (73,101 ) net (decrease)/ increase in cash 26,893 (10,056 ) (83,000 ) cash and cash equivalents at january 1, 47,853 57,909 140,909 cash and cash equivalents at december 31, $ 74,746 $ 47,853 $ 57,909 144 27. subsequent event $75.0 million share repurchase program authorized by the company board of directors, effective january 27, 2005 on january 27, 2005, the company announced that its board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $75.0 million of common stock under the stock repurchase program, in conjunction with the $160.0 million originally approved in may 2003. the additional $75.0 million of shares may be repurchased at any time, at the company discretion, before june 30, 2006, in the open market, through block trades or otherwise, pursuant to applicable securities laws. depending on market conditions, availability of funds, and other relevant factors, the repurchase of the additional shares may be commenced or suspended at any time prior to june 30, 2006, without any prior notice. from january 1, 2005 through march 3, 2005, the company repurchased 677,500 shares of its common stock under the may 2003 stock repurchase program. the company trading window closed on march 3, 2005. to continue the repurchase program, the company put into effect a 10b5-1 plan which allows the company to automatically repurchase a predetermined number shares per day at the market price on every trading day until the trading window re-opens on april 26, 2005. since may 2003 when the program was approved by the board of directors, the company has repurchased 5.5 million shares totaling $155.8 million as of march 4, 2005. included in the above noted common stock repurchase activity are 400,000 shares of the company common stock, repurchased on march 2, 2005, from one of its principal stockholders, h.a. schupf &amp; co., llc, in a block transaction. the shares were repurchased at a price of $44.20 per share for an aggregate total price of $17,680,000, which reflected a discount from the current asking price as quoted on the nasdaq national market at the time the transaction was entered into. see note 20 - related parties loan transactions. default upon zero-coupon convertible subordinated notes on october 12, 2005 and december 16, 2005, the trustee under the note indenture relating to the company $150.0 million zero-coupon convertible subordinated notes due june 15, 2008, provided notice in accordance with the terms of the indenture that the company was in breach of its covenant to remain current in its sec filings because of its failure to file its quarterly reports on form 10-q for the quarters ended june 30, 2005 and september 30, 2005, respectively. the company failure to cure this breach within 60 days of the october 12, 2005 notice constituted an event of default under the indenture as of december 11, 2005. as the indenture does not provide for any right of acceleration of the payment of the principal of the notes upon a default in the performance of any covenant or agreement in the notes or in the indenture, the trustee and the holders are not entitled to accelerate the maturity of the notes upon the occurrence of the aforementioned event o default. as a result, this event of default did not constitute a material default with respect to the company indebtedness. upon the occurrence of this event of default, the trustee was entitled, subject to certain limitations and conditions, to seek to enforce the performance of such covenant. in addition, during the period that the event of default was continuing, the company could not pay cash upon conversion of any note or portion of the note (other than cash for fractional shares). upon the filing by the company of its quarterly reports of form 10-q for the quarters ended june 30, 2005 and september 30, 2005, any default or event of default under these notices will be cured. 28. variable interest entities adoption of fin 46r in january 2003, the fasb issued fasb interpretation 46, consolidation of variable interest entities, an interpretation of arb no. 51 (fin 46). in december 2003, the fasb modified fin 46r to make certain technical corrections and address certain implementation issues that had arisen. fin 46r provides a new framework for identifying variable interest entities (vies) and determining when a company should include the assets, liabilities, noncontrolling interests and results of activities of a vie in its consolidated financial statements. in general, a vie is a corporation, partnership, limited-liability corporation, trust, or any other legal structure used to conduct activities or hold assets that either (1) has an insufficient amount of equity to carry out its principal activities without additional subordinated financial support, (2) has a group of equity owners that are unable to make significant decisions about its activities, or (3) has a group of equity owners that do not have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to receive residual returns generated by its operations. fin 46r requires a vie to be consolidated if a party with an ownership, contractual or other financial interest in the vie (a variable interest holder) is obligated to absorb a majority of the expected losses from the vie activities, is entitled to receive a majority of the vie residual returns (if no party absorbs a majority of the vie expected losses), or both. a variable interest holder that consolidates the vie is called the primary beneficiary. upon consolidation, the primary beneficiary generally must initially record all of the vie assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests at fair value and subsequently account for the vie as if it were consolidated based on majority voting interest. fin 46r also requires disclosures about vies that the variable interest holder is not required to consolidate but in which it has a significant variable interest. fin 46r was effective immediately for vies created after january 31, 2003. the provisions of fin 46r, as revised, were adopted as of december 31, 2003, for the company interests in all vies. the company evaluated various entities in which it held an interest to determine if these entities met the definition of a variable interest entity (vie), and whether the company was the primary beneficiary and should consolidate the entity based on the variable interests it held. the following provides a summary of the vies in which the company has a significant variable interest, and discusses the accounting changes that resulted from the adoption of fin 46r. the company has a significant variable limited partnership interest in the gold hill venture lending partners 03, llc (ghllc), which is the general partner of gold hill venture lending 03, lp, a venture debt fund, and certain affiliated funds (the gold hill funds ). ghllc was formed in 2000 and was consolidated as a wholly-owned subsidiary until it admitted additional members in the third quarter of 2004, which caused ghllc to meet the fin 46r definition of a vie, since the 145 company has disproportionately few voting rights and substantially all of ghllc activities involve or are conducted on the company behalf. because the company is the primary beneficiary of the entity, the company continued to consolidate ghllc in the third quarter 2004 as a vie under fin 46r which requires that the elimination of intercompany balances and transactions be attributed to the primary beneficiary (and not to noncontrolling interests) in the consolidated financial statements. creditors of the entity do not have recourse against the company, and the company exposure to loss as a result of involvement with ghllc at december 31, 2004 was limited to approximately $2.2 million of net equity investment in the entity and approximately $7.5 million of commitments for future investments. none of the gold hill funds meets the fin 46r definition of a vie. svb financial owns 100% of the common stock of svb capital ii, an entity formed in october 2003 to issue trust preferred securities. svb financial has provided a full and unconditional guarantee of the trust preferred securities, and svb capital ii has no operating history or independent operations and is not engaged in and does not propose to engage in any other activity. svb capital ii meets the fin 46r definition of a vie, but the company is not the primary beneficiary in this entity because, as a result of the company investment being funded by svb capital ii, the investment is not considered to be at risk. as such, svb capital ii was not consolidated into the company financial statements at december 31, 2004, or december 31, 2003. the junior subordinated debentures held by svb capital ii ($49.5 million at december 31, 2004) is included in the company borrowings. see note 13 (borrowings). the company is not exposed to loss related to svb capital ii. the federal reserve board announced in july 2003 that qualifying trust preferred securities will continue to be treated as tier 1 capital until notice is given to the contrary. for further information on the adoption of fin 46r, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies. 146 unaudited quarterly financial data supplemental consolidated financial information for each three month period over the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows: three months ended march 31, 2004 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 36,632 $ (1,124 ) $ 35,508 investment securities: taxable 14,023 (529 ) 13,494 non-taxable 1,461 1,461 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 1,444 529 1,973 total interest income 53,560 (1,124 ) 52,436 interest expense deposits 2,014 2,014 other borrowings 726 726 total interest expense 2,740 2,740 net interest income 50,820 (1,124 ) 49,696 (recovery of) provision for loan losses 736 (91 ) 645 net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan losses 50,084 (1,033 ) 49,051 noninterest income: client investment fees 6,268 6,268 corporate finance fees 4,087 295 4,382 letter of credit fee income 3,729 (1,058 ) 2,671 deposit service charges 3,713 3,713 income from client warrants 2,908 (2,908 ) gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 2,565 2,565 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 1,322 147 1,469 credit card fees 777 777 other 2,082 2,082 total noninterest income 24,886 (959 ) 23,927 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 34,103 (696 ) 33,407 net occupancy 4,523 78 4,601 professional services 3,339 3,339 furniture and equipment 2,909 2,909 business development and travel 1,991 1,991 correspondent bank fees 1,281 1,281 data processing services 1,085 1,085 telephone 782 782 postage and supplies 772 772 tax credit fund amortization 620 620 impairment of goodwill provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments (719 ) (719 ) other 1,764 1,764 total noninterest expense 52,450 (618 ) 51,832 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 22,520 (1,374 ) 21,146 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (481 ) (481 ) income (loss) before income tax expense 22,039 (1,374 ) 20,665 income tax expense (benefit) 8,029 (585 ) 7,444 net income (loss) $ 14,010 $ (789 ) $ 13,221 earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ 0.40 $ (0.02 ) $ 0.38 earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ 0.38 $ (0.02 ) $ 0.36 147 three months ended june 30, 2004 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 37,280 $ (1,666 ) $ 35,614 investment securities: taxable 17,989 (411 ) 17,578 non-taxable 1,290 1,290 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 1,306 411 1,717 total interest income 57,865 (1,666 ) 56,199 interest expense deposits 2,124 2,124 other borrowings 712 712 total interest expense 2,836 2,836 net interest income 55,029 (1,666 ) 53,363 (recovery of) provision for loan losses (5,860 ) (315 ) (6,175 ) net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan losses 60,889 (1,351 ) 59,538 noninterest income: client investment fees 6,399 6,399 corporate finance fees 10,897 (138 ) 10,759 letter of credit fee income 3,805 (1,462 ) 2,343 deposit service charges 3,695 3,695 income from client warrants 3,310 (3,310 ) gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 3,593 3,593 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 478 277 755 credit card fees 604 604 other 2,320 2,320 total noninterest income 31,508 (1,040 ) 30,468 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 41,153 (480 ) 40,673 net occupancy 4,587 78 4,665 professional services 4,876 4,876 furniture and equipment 3,450 3,450 business development and travel 2,180 2,180 correspondent bank fees 1,243 1,243 data processing services 789 789 telephone 902 902 postage and supplies 872 872 tax credit fund amortization 620 620 impairment of goodwill provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 3,101 3,101 other 2,978 2,978 total noninterest expense 66,751 (402 ) 66,349 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 25,646 (1,989 ) 23,657 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (67 ) (67 ) income (loss) before income tax expense 25,579 (1,989 ) 23,590 income tax expense (benefit) 9,871 (742 ) 9, 129 net income (loss) $ 15,708 $ (1,247 ) $ 14,461 earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ 0.45 $ (0.04 ) $ 0.41 earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ 0.43 $ (0.04 ) $ 0.39 148 three months ended september 30, 2004 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 41,639 (947 ) $ 40,692 investment securities: taxable 19,763 (576 ) 19,187 non-taxable 1,144 1,144 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 1,347 576 1,923 total interest income 63,893 (947 ) 62,946 interest expense deposits 2,138 2,138 other borrowings 762 762 total interest expense 2,900 2,900 net interest income 60,993 (947 ) 60,046 (recovery of) provision for loan losses (1,395 ) 5 (1,390 ) net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan losses 62,388 (952 ) 61,436 noninterest income: client investment fees 6,955 6,955 corporate finance fees 3,197 (177 ) 3,020 letter of credit fee income 3,874 (1,594 ) 2,280 deposit service charges 3,187 3,187 income from client warrants 1,152 (1,152 ) 0 gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 2,388 2,388 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 133 (322 ) (189 ) credit card fees 658 658 other 2,646 2,646 total noninterest income 21,802 (857 ) 20,945 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 36,926 (465 ) 36,461 net occupancy 4,512 78 4,590 professional services 4,967 4,967 furniture and equipment 3,067 3,067 business development and travel 2,654 2,654 correspondent bank fees 1,407 1,407 data processing services 735 735 telephone 856 856 postage and supplies 808 808 tax credit fund amortization 620 620 impairment of goodwill 1,910 1,910 provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments (1,856 ) (1,856 ) other 2,244 2,244 total noninterest expense 58,850 (387 ) 58,463 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 25,340 (1,422 ) 23,918 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (2 ) (2 ) income (loss) before income tax expense 25,338 (1,422 ) 23,916 income tax expense (benefit) 9,235 (710 ) 8,525 net income (loss) $ 16,103 (712 ) $ 15,391 earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ 0.46 $ (0.02 ) $ 0.44 earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ 0.43 $ (0.02 ) $ 0.41 149 three months ended december 31, 2004 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 46,512 (722 ) $ 45,790 investment securities: taxable 21,154 (762 ) 20,392 non-taxable 1,109 1,109 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 2,046 762 2,808 total interest income 70,821 (722 ) 70,099 interest expense deposits 2,147 2,147 other borrowings 768 768 total interest expense 2,915 2,915 net interest income 67,906 (722 ) 67,184 (recovery of) provision for loan losses (3,382 ) (13 ) (3,369 ) net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan losses 71,288 (735 ) 70,553 noninterest income: client investment fees 7,297 7,297 corporate finance fees 3,732 131 3,863 letter of credit fee income 4,991 (2,291 ) 2,700 deposit service charges 2,943 2,943 income from client warrants 1,821 (1,821 ) gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 8,200 8,200 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 3,638 (475 ) 3,163 credit card fees 778 778 other 2,637 41 2,678 total noninterest income 27,837 3,785 31,622 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 42,915 441 43,356 net occupancy 3,968 310 4,278 professional services 3,886 3,886 furniture and equipment 2,977 2,977 business development and travel 2,893 2,893 correspondent bank fees 1,409 1,409 data processing services 1,038 1,038 telephone 827 827 postage and supplies 803 803 tax credit fund amortization 620 620 impairment of goodwill provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 1,023 1,023 other 2,076 2,076 total noninterest expense 64,435 751 65,186 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 34,690 2,299 36,989 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (2,529 ) (11 ) (2,540 ) income (loss) before income tax expense 32,161 2,288 34,449 income tax expense (benefit) 12,606 1,050 13,656 net income (loss) $ 19,555 1,238 $ 20,793 earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ 0.55 $ 0.03 $ 0.58 earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ 0.51 $ 0.03 $ 0.54 150 three months ended march 31, 2003 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 37,836 (642 ) $ 37,194 investment securities: taxable 10,377 (1,062 ) 9,315 non-taxable 1,596 1,596 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 830 1,062 1,892 total interest income 50,639 (642 ) 49,997 interest expense deposits 2,451 2,451 other borrowings 210 210 total interest expense 2,661 2,661 net interest income 47,978 (642 ) 47,336 (recovery of) provision for loan losses 1,807 (320 ) 1,487 net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan losses 46,171 (322 ) 45,849 noninterest income: client investment fees 6,332 6,332 corporate finance fees 4,144 (179 ) 3,965 letter of credit fee income 3,503 (1,436 ) 2,067 deposit service charges 2,876 2,876 income from client warrants 1,962 (1,962 ) gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 2,995 2,995 gains (losses) on investment securities, net (4,705 ) (1,564 ) (6,269 ) credit card fees 1,046 1,046 other 2,288 (300 ) 1,988 total noninterest income 17,446 (2,446 ) 15,000 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 31,690 (273 ) 31,417 net occupancy 4,402 4,402 professional services 3,439 3,439 furniture and equipment 2,194 2,194 business development and travel 1,616 1,616 correspondent bank fees 1,040 1,040 data processing services 1,091 1,091 telephone 778 778 postage and supplies 584 584 tax credit fund amortization 715 715 impairment of goodwill provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 1,577 1,577 trust preferred securities distributions 281 544 825 other 2,278 2,278 total noninterest expense 51,685 271 51,956 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 11,932 (3,039 ) 8,893 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates 3,479 3,479 income (loss) before income tax expense 15,411 (3,039 ) 12,372 income tax expense (benefit) 4,993 (1,218 ) 3,775 net income (loss) $ 10,418 (1,821 ) 8,597 earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ 0.27 $ (0.05 ) $ 0.22 earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ 0.26 $ (0.04 ) $ 0.22 151 three months ended june 30, 2003 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 38,134 $ (1,588 ) $ 36,546 investment securities: taxable 8,557 (1,055 ) 7,502 non-taxable 1,586 1,586 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 1,129 1,055 2,184 total interest income 49,406 (1,588 ) 47,818 interest expense deposits 2,389 2,389 other borrowings 317 317 total interest expense 2,706 2,706 net interest income 46,700 (1,588 ) 45,112 (recovery of) provision for loan losses 2,667 (253 ) 2,414 net interest income after provision for loan losses 44,033 (1,335 ) 42,698 noninterest income: client investment fees 6,034 6,034 corporate finance fees 4,641 41 4,682 letter of credit fee income 3,128 (885 ) 2,243 deposit service charges 3,245 3,245 income from client warrants 1,051 (1,051 ) gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 5,001 5,001 gains (losses) on investment securities, net (3,839 ) 10 (3,829 ) credit card fees 988 988 other 2,257 (500 ) 1,757 total noninterest income 17,505 2,616 20,121 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 29,486 (339 ) 29,147 net occupancy 4,103 4,103 professional services 3,985 3,985 furniture and equipment 2,710 2,710 business development and travel 2,296 2,296 correspondent bank fees 1,094 1,094 data processing services 1,392 1,392 telephone 857 857 postage and supplies 632 632 tax credit fund amortization 716 716 impairment of goodwill 17,000 17,000 provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments (1,505 ) (1,505 ) trust preferred securities distributions 313 457 770 other 2,619 2,619 total noninterest expense 65,698 118 65,816 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense (4,160 ) 1,163 (2,997 ) minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates 2,765 2,765 income (loss) before income tax expense (1,395 ) 1,163 (232 ) income tax expense (benefit) (819 ) 472 (347 ) net income (loss) $ (576 ) $ 691 $ 115 earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ (0.02 ) $ 0.02 $ 0.00 earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ (0.02 ) $ 0.02 $ 0.00 152 three months ended september 30, 2003 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 36,440 (1,410 ) $ 35,030 investment securities: taxable 10,532 (870 ) 9,662 non-taxable 1,575 1,575 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 1,204 870 2,074 total interest income 49,751 (1,410 ) 48,341 interest expense deposits 2,196 2,196 other borrowings 1,281 1,281 total interest expense 3,477 3,477 net interest income 46,274 (1,410 ) 44,864 (recovery of) provision for loan losses (8,150 ) (172 ) (8,322 ) net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan losses 54,424 (1,238 ) 53,186 noninterest income: client investment fees 5,793 5,793 corporate finance fees 2,737 (267 ) 2,470 letter of credit fee income 3,419 (1,159 ) 2,260 deposit service charges 3,567 3,567 income from client warrants 1,518 (1,518 ) gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 7,030 7,030 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 1,317 8 1,325 credit card fees 638 638 other 2,351 2,351 total noninterest income 21,340 4,094 25,434 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 32,400 (372 ) 32,028 net occupancy 4,614 4,614 professional services 2,378 2,378 furniture and equipment 2,654 2,654 business development and travel 1,874 1,874 correspondent bank fees 1,075 1,075 data processing services 926 926 telephone 707 707 postage and supplies 590 590 tax credit fund amortization 712 712 impairment of goodwill provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 701 701 trust preferred securities distributions other 874 15 889 total noninterest expense 49,505 (357 ) 49,148 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense 26,259 3,213 29,472 minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates 7 7 income (loss) before income tax expense 26,266 3,213 29,479 income tax expense (benefit) 8,837 1,266 10,103 net income (loss) $ 17,429 1,947 $ 19,376 earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ 0.51 $ 0.06 $ 0.57 earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ 0.49 $ 0.06 $ 0.55 153 three months ended december 31, 2003 as previously reported adjustments as restated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) (unaudited) (unaudited) (unaudited) interest income: loans $ 36,360 (1,544 ) $ 34,816 investment securities: taxable 13,323 (507 ) 12,816 non-taxable 1,491 1,491 federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments 1,367 507 1,874 total interest income 52,541 (1,544 ) 50,997 interest expense deposits 2,047 2,047 other borrowings 2,562 2,562 total interest expense 4,609 4,609 net interest income 47,932 (1,544 ) 46,388 (recovery of) provision for loan losses (5,051 ) (420 ) (5,471 ) net interest income after (recovery of) provision for loan losses 52,983 (1,124 ) 51,859 noninterest income: client investment fees 5,832 5,832 corporate finance fees 1,627 (540 ) 1,087 letter of credit fee income 2,806 (464 ) 2,342 deposit service charges 3,514 3,514 income from client warrants 2,997 (2,997 ) gains (losses) on derivative instruments, net 5,174 5,174 gains (losses) on investment securities, net (1,175 ) 334 (841 ) credit card fees 759 759 other 2,409 2,409 total noninterest income 18,769 1,507 20,276 noninterest expense: compensation and benefits 29,388 (327 ) 29,061 net occupancy 4,519 4,519 professional services 3,875 3,875 furniture and equipment 3,731 3,731 business development and travel 2,906 2,906 correspondent bank fees 1,134 1,134 data processing services 879 879 telephone 845 845 postage and supplies 795 795 tax credit fund amortization 561 561 impairment of goodwill 46,000 46,000 provision for (reduction of) unfunded credit commitments 1,731 1,731 trust preferred securities distributions other 1,939 1,939 total noninterest expense 98,303 (327 ) 97,976 income before minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates and income tax expense (26,551 ) 710 (25,841 ) minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates 1,438 1,438 income (loss) before income tax expense (25,113 ) 710 (24,403 ) income tax expense (benefit) (9,819 ) 462 (9,357 ) net income (loss) $ (15,294 ) 248 $ (15,046 ) earnings (loss) per common share-basic $ (0.44 ) $ $ (0.44 ) earnings (loss) per common share-diluted $ (0.44 ) $ $ (0.44 ) 154 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a. controls and procedures (a) disclosure controls and procedures disclosure controls and procedures are the controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that the company files or submits under the securities exchange act of 1934 (exchange act) is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission (sec) rules and forms. disclosure controls and procedures include, among other processes, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that the company files or submits under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. the company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and management, including the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of december 31, 2004 pursuant to exchange act rule 13a-15. as a result of the material weaknesses described below in management report on internal controls over financial reporting (as restated), the chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that the company disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of december 31, 2004. (b) management report on internal control over financial reporting (as restated) management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting at the company. our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the company financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). a company internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect, in reasonable detail, transactions and dispositions of the company assets, (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors of the company, and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the company financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. as of december 31, 2004, the company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the company management, including the company chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting pursuant to rule 13a-15(c), as adopted by the sec under the exchange act. in evaluating the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting, management used the framework established in internal control integrated framework, issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). in the company previously filed annual report on form 10-k for the year-ended december 31, 2004, management concluded that the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, was effective. however, on july 18, 2005, the company determined that it needed to restate certain of its previously issued consolidated financial statements. as a result of such restatement, management reassessed the company internal control over financial reporting using the coso criteria and identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. a material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. management identified the following material weaknesses as of december 31, 2004: 155 the company did not have adequately designed internal controls in its financial reporting process related to the selection and application of u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). specifically, accounting policies, procedures and practices were not consistently developed, maintained or updated in a manner ensuring that financial statements were prepared in accordance with gaap. also, policies and procedures were not designed to consistently ensure the preparation and retention of adequate documentation to support key judgments made in connection with the selection and application of significant accounting policies within the company financial reporting process. finally, the company policies and procedures did not consistently provide for effective analysis, implementation, and documentation of new accounting pronouncements. the company did not maintain sufficient levels of appropriately qualified and trained personnel in its financial reporting processes. as a result, the company did not establish internal control over financial reporting policies and procedures related to (a) the timely preparation of comprehensive documentation supporting management analysis of the appropriate accounting treatment for warrant derivative assets or other non-routine or complex transactions, and (b) the review of such documentation by qualified internal staff, assisted by external advisors as deemed necessary, to determine its completeness and the propriety of the company conclusions. these material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of the company previously issued consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2004, and the interim consolidated financial information for each of the quarterly periods in 2004 and 2003. specifically, the aforementioned material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004 resulted in the following accounting errors: 1) derivative equity warrant assets with net share settlement provisions were not reported as derivatives in accordance with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities , as amended. specifically, the company failed to properly reflect the fair value of equity warrant assets with net settlement terms received during lending activity in its consolidated balance sheet, the change in fair value of the equity warrant assets in the income statement and the accretion of the grant date fair value of equity warrant assets to interest income as a yield adjustment. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company interest income, provision for loan and lease losses, noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 2) initial non-refundable corporate finance fees were not reported in accordance with the provisions of staff accounting bulletin no. 104, revenue recognition . specifically, the company failed to defer recognition of initial upfront non-refundable retainers received upon execution of engagement letters to provide mergers and acquisitions advisory services until the completion of all contractual obligations pursuant to the terms of the engagement letters or upon receipt or notification of an engagement termination letter. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 3) non-refundable loan fees and costs associated with the company lending products and fees associated with letters of credit were not reported in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 91, accounting for nonrefundable fees and costs associated with originating or acquiring loans and initial direct costs of leases. specifically, the company failed to recognize net fee revenue in accordance with the appropriate straight-line or interest method, as prescribed by sfas no. 91, for net loan fee income obtained in connection with the extension of lending products. in addition, the company inappropriately recognized non-refundable loan fees it receives for factoring loans immediately rather than deferring and amortizing fees over the term of the facility granted. the company did not properly defer direct loan origination costs associated with originating certain loan products. in addition, the company misclassified fees on certain letters of credit as interest income rather than noninterest income on commitments where the probability of exercise was deemed remote. these misapplications of gaap resulted in a change to the company interest income, noninterest income and net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 and for all quarterly periods during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 4) certain investment securities that were readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of changes in value with original or purchased maturity dates of 90 days or less, were not reported as cash equivalents in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 95, statement of cash flows . this misapplication of gaap resulted in a reclassification in the company consolidated balance sheets of money market mutual fund investments and commercial paper investments from investment securities to federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities. this reclassification did not result in any change to the company revenue or net income for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 or for any quarterly period during the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. 5) current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable were not reflected net on the company balance sheets. this misapplication of gaap resulted in a change to the company other assets and other liabilities as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. current federal income taxes receivable and current federal income taxes payable should be netted as the company has the legal right of offset, as defined by fin no. 39, offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts . therefore, other assets and other liabilities have been restated to reflect the net current federal income taxes receivable or net current federal income taxes payable at each of these period ends. this correction of accounting resulted in a decrease to both other assets and other liabilities as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. 156 also, as a result of the aforementioned material weaknesses, there were other errors in previously issued financial statements that were corrected as part of the restatement. based on the company assessment and the criteria discussed above, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2004, the company internal control over financial reporting was not effective as a result of the aforementioned material weakness. kpmg llp, the company independent registered public accountants, has audited the restated management report on the company internal control over financial reporting, as stated in their attestation report which appears on page 83. (c) changes in internal control no changes in our internal control over financial reporting occurred during the fourth quarter of the period covered by this annual report on 10-k that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. (d) remediation of material weaknesses the company management has identified the steps necessary to address the aforementioned material weaknesses, including: documenting of processes and procedures, along with appropriate training, to ensure that the company accounting policies, which have been corrected to conform with u.s. gaap, are consistently applied going forward; hiring additional accounting personnel to ensure that accounting personnel with adequate experience, skills and knowledge particularly in relation to complex or non-routine transactions are directly involved in the review and accounting evaluation of such transactions; involving internal personnel assisted by external advisors, as deemed necessary, early in the process, particularly in complex or non-routine transactions, to obtain additional guidance as to the application of generally accepted accounting principles to any such proposed transaction; ensuring comprehensive documentation supporting management analysis of the appropriate accounting treatment for equity warrant derivatives or other non-routine or complex transactions and the related review thereof are completed to standards established by senior accounting personnel and the principal accounting officer; requiring senior accounting personnel and the principal accounting officer to review all complex or non-routine transactions to evaluate and approve the accounting treatment for such transactions; and requiring regular periodic review of all significant accounting policies and their adoptions, application, and impact by senior accounting personnel and the principal accounting officer together with the audit committee of the board of directors. the company began to execute the remediation plans identified above in the third quarter of 2005, and we believe our controls and procedures will continue to improve as a result of the further implementation of these actions. we cannot assure you that these remediation efforts will be successful or that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. see part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. item 9b. other information none. 157 part iii. item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant the information set forth under the sections titled proposal no. 1 election of directors , information on executive officers , board committees and meeting attendance , and section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance contained in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2005 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. code of ethics the company has a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer. a copy of this code of ethics is available on the company website at www.svb.com. the company intends to disclose any changes in or waivers from its code of ethics by posting such information on its website. item 11. executive compensation the information set forth under the sections titled information on executive officers , 1997 equity incentive plan benefits table , report of the compensation committee of the board on executive compensation , summary compensation table , option grants in last fiscal year , aggregated option exercises in last fiscal year and fiscal year-end option values , employment contracts and termination of employment and change in control arrangements , return to stockholders performance graph , and director compensation contained in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2005 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information set forth under the sections titled security ownership of directors and executive officers and security ownership of principal stockholders contained in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2005 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. our stockholders have approved each of our active equity compensation plans. the following table provides certain information as of december 31, 2004 with respect to our equity compensation plans: plan category number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights(a)(1) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c)(2) equity compensation plans approved by stockholder 6,646,760 $ 27.40 1,449,778 equity compensation plans not approved by stockholder n/a n/a n/a total 6,646,760 $ 27.40 1,449,778 (1) includes options, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under the company amended and restated 1997 equity incentive plan and amended and restated 1989 stock option plan. (2) includes shares available for issuance under the company amended and restated 1997 equity incentive plan. this table does not include 1,099,945 shares available for issuance under the 1999 employee stock purchase plan. for additional information concerning our equity compensation plans, refer to item 8. consolidated financial statements and supplementary data note 19 - employee benefit plans. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions the information set forth under the section titled certain relationships and related transactions in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2005 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information set forth under the section titled principal audit fees and services contained in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2005 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 158 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules page (a) financial statements and exhibits: (1) financial statements. the following consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its subsidiaries are included in part ii item 8, as restated: report of independent registered public accounting firm 86 consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2004 and 2003 87 consolidated statements of income for the three years ended december 31, 2004 88 consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the three years ended december 31, 2004 89 consolidated statements of stockholders equity for the three years ended december 31, 2004 90 consolidated statements of cash flows for the three years ended december 31, 2004 91 notes to consolidated financial statements 92 (2) financial statement schedule the consolidated financial statements and supplemental data, as restated, are contained in part iirisk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory, and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face, and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. credit risks if a significant number of clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability, and financial condition would be adversely affected. as a lender, the largest risk we face is the possibility that a significant number of our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our experience and judgment. we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, or financial condition. because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile, and we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. many of our loans are made to companies in the early stages of development with negative cash flow and no established record of profitable operations. in many cases, repayment of the loan is dependent upon receipt of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others. collateral for many of the loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the 15 companies in our technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. we also make loans that are larger, relative to the revenues of the borrower, than those made by traditional small business lenders, so the impact of any single borrower default may be more significant to us. because of these characteristics, our level of nonperforming loans and loan charge-offs can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. changes in our level of nonperforming loans may require us to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest spread could have a material impact on our business and profitability. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates and fees we receive on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to our clients and interest rates we receive on securities held in our investment portfolio. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. in addition, legislative changes could affect the manner in which we pay interest on deposits or other liabilities. for example, congress has for many years debated repealing a law that prohibits banks from paying interest rates on checking accounts. if this law were to be repealed, we would be subject to competitive pressure to pay interest on our clients checking accounts, which would negatively affect our interest rate spread. any material decline in our interest rate spread would have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. additionally, a portion of our loan fee income, a component of loan interest income, is predicated on the receipt of warrant assets. if we fail to continue to receive warrant assets our future interest margin may decline. our business is dependent upon access to funds on attractive terms. we derive our net interest income through lending or investing capital on terms that provide returns in excess of our costs for obtaining that capital. as a result, our credit ratings are important to our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs (or trigger obligations under certain existing borrowings and other contracts), or increase the interest rates we pay our depositors. further, our credit ratings and the terms upon which we have access to capital may be influenced by circumstances beyond our control, such as overall trends in the general market environment, perceptions about our creditworthiness or market conditions in the industries in which we focus. warrant, venture capital fund, and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which is uncertain. we have historically obtained rights to acquire stock, in the form of equity warrants, in certain clients as part of negotiated credit facilities and for other services. in future periods we may not be able to ultimately realize gains from the sale of securities to third parties related to the exercise of warrants, or our realized gains may be materially less than the current level of fair value of derivative equity warrant assets and unrealized gains disclosed in this filing. we also have made investments in venture capital funds as well as direct equity investments in companies. the timing and amount of income, if any, from the disposition of client warrants, venture capital funds, and direct equity investments typically depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying portfolio companies, investor demand for initial public offerings, fluctuations in the market prices of the underlying common stock of these 16 companies, levels of mergers and acquisitions activity, and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell the underlying securities. in addition, our investments in venture capital funds and direct equity investments have lost value and could continue to lose value or become worthless, which would reduce our net income or could cause a net loss in any period. all of these factors are difficult to predict, particularly in the current economic environment. additionally, due to the nature of investing in private equity venture-backed technology and life science companies, it is likely that additional investments within our existing portfolio will become impaired. however, we are not in a position to know at the present time which specific investments, if any, are likely to be impaired or the extent or timing of individual impairments. therefore, we cannot predict future investment gains or losses with any degree of accuracy, and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients can cause loans to be paid off early, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering or are acquired or merge with another company. any significant reduction in our outstanding loans could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we rely on experienced client relationship managers and on officers and employees with strong relationships with the venture capital community to generate new business. if a significant number of these employees were to leave us, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we believe that our employees frequently have opportunities for alternative employment with competing financial institutions and with our clients. changes to our employee compensation structure could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit, and retain certain key employees. we account for our employee stock options in accordance with accounting principles board opinion no. 25 and related interpretations, which provide that any compensation expense relative to employee stock options be measured based on the intrinsic value of the stock options. as a result, when options are granted at fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant, as is our practice, we incur no compensation expense. in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment, which is a revision of sfas no. 123 and supersedes apb no. 25. sfas no. 123(r) requires us to record compensation expense for all employee share based payments. such expense will have a material impact on our results of operations. in october 2004, in an effort to align our option grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we significantly decreased the number of shares subject to options granted to our employees on a prospective basis. we may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other forms of equity compensation. our decision to reduce the number of option shares to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other future changes we may adopt in our employee compensation structures, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit, and retain certain key employees. 17 we could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. we offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. the secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is essential to maintain our clients confidence in our online services. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. people generally are concerned with security and privacy on the internet and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. business interruptions due to natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our business. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, power failures, telecommunication loss, terrorist attacks, and acts of war. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or manmade, could cause severe destruction or interruption to our operations and as a result, our business could suffer serious harm. to mitigate these risks we have begun a phased business continuity program, with initial capabilities available in 2005 and additional capabilities to be implemented throughout 2006. additionally, we announced in january 2006 that we expected to open a support and back-operations facility in salt lake city, utah during the first half of 2006. the facility is part of our business continuity strategy to ensure the continuous availability of critical client operations in the event of an unforeseen disaster. we also have a back-up data center in phoenix, arizona. nonetheless, there is no assurance that our business continuity program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business interruptions. we rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections and network access. any disruption in internet, network access or other voice or data communication services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our processes to effectively support our growth. we have a complex set of information technology systems and processes to support our business. our systems consist of multiple information systems that complicate our processing, reporting and analysis of our business transactions and business information. although we have continuously improved our business systems and processes, as our business grows larger and more complex, our current systems and processes will likely not be able to support the growth effectively. in 2006 and forward, there will be a more significant focus towards improving our systems and processes in order to increase our efficiency, including 18 upgrading and consolidating our information systems and improving and automating, where appropriate, our processes. there is no assurance that we can effectively and timely improve our systems and processes to meet all of our business needs efficiently. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may assume that a customer audited financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( gaap ) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by relying on financial statements that do not comply with gaap or that are materially misleading. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with gaap and reflect management judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. our management has determined that as of december 31, 2005, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting based on criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission in internal control integrated framework as a result of identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. specifically, we did not have adequately designed internal controls in our financial reporting process related to the selection and application of generally accepted accounting principles in that (a) accounting policies, procedures and practices were not consistently developed, maintained or updated in a manner ensuring that financial statements were prepared in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, (b) these policies and procedures were not designed to consistently ensure the preparation and retention of adequate documentation to support key judgments made in connection with the selection and application of significant accounting policies within our financial reporting process and (c) our policies and procedures 19 did not consistently provide for effective analysis, implementation, and documentation of new accounting pronouncements. in addition, we did not maintain sufficient levels of appropriately qualified and trained personnel in our financial reporting processes resulting in our inability to establish internal control over financial reporting policies and procedures related to (1) the timely preparation of comprehensive documentation supporting management analysis of the appropriate accounting treatment for warrant derivatives or other non-routine or complex transactions, and (2) the review of such documentation by qualified internal staff, assisted by external advisors as deemed necessary, to determine our completeness and the propriety of our conclusions. for a detailed description of these material weaknesses and our remediation efforts and plans, see part ii, items 9a and 9b. these control deficiencies resulted in material errors in our financial reporting which resulted in a restatement of our financial statements for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004. this restatement process took five months to complete, required substantial resources and personnel, and included a comprehensive review of our financial statements and accounting practices by our auditors. however, we have not yet fully remediated these material weaknesses. in response to these material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we are implementing additional controls and procedures and are incurring additional related expenses. we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken to date and are planning to take will sufficiently and satisfactorily remediate the identified material weaknesses in full. furthermore, we intend to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting and the implementation and testing of these efforts could result in increased cost and could divert management attention away from operating our business. if we are unable to remediate the identified material weaknesses discussed above, or if additional material weaknesses are identified in our internal control over financial reporting, our management will be unable to report favorably as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and/or our disclosure controls and procedures, and we could be required to further implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and potentially lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. svb financial, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries are extensively regulated under federal and state law. these regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, other clients, and the deposit insurance fund not for the benefit of stockholders or security holders. federal and state laws and regulations limit or otherwise affect the activities in which svb financial, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries may engage. a change in the applicable statutes, regulations, or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways including by placing limitations on the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. in addition, svb financial, silicon valley bank, and their subsidiaries are required to maintain certain minimum levels of capital. federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory action, as they deem appropriate, with respect to svb financial and silicon valley bank. svb alliant and svb securities, both broker-dealer subsidiaries, are regulated by the sec and the national association of securities dealers, inc. (nasd). violations of the stringent regulations governing the actions of a broker-dealer can result in the revocation of broker-dealer licenses, the imposition of censures or fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion from the securities business of a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions can result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, and limitations on the activities of svb financial, silicon valley bank or their subsidiaries. these supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. any increased or unanticipated regulatory 20 scrutiny or review may impact the conduct of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability, since existing resources would be detracted from the current conduct of business and reprioritized to resolve any such review. for example, the scope and degree of regulatory scrutiny of bank secrecy act (bsa)/anti-money laundering compliance have expanded significantly following the events of september 11, 2001 and as a result we have been focusing resources to understand our inherent bsa risk and to document our compliance. we could also receive regulatory sanctions or be subject to regulatory orders for any failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, which may damage our reputation. svb financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue. svb financial is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on svb financial common and preferred stock and interest and principal on its debt. various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. strategic/reputation risks our business reputation is important and any damage to it can have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity community and the industries in which we serve. any damage to our reputation, such as regulatory enforcement actions, downgrade of ratings, loss of customers, late filings of sec reports and potential delisting actions, could have a material adverse effect on our business. adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology sector and particularly in california, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, and profitability. if conditions deteriorate in the domestic or global economy, especially in the technology, life science, private equity, and premium wine industry niches, our business, growth, and profitability are likely to be materially adversely affected. a global or u.s. economic slowdown would harm many of our clients. our clients may be particularly sensitive to disruptions in the growth of the technology sector of the u.s. economy. in addition, a substantial number of our clients are geographically concentrated in california, and adverse economic conditions in california could harm the businesses of a disproportionate number of our clients. to the extent that our clients underlying businesses are harmed, they are more likely to default on their loans. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to start-up and emerging-growth companies could adversely affect our business, profitability, and growth prospects. our strategy has focused on providing banking products and services to emerging-growth and corporate technology companies receiving financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capitalists, angels, and corporate investors. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive a second or third round of equity infusion from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which would have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. 21 among the factors that have and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies are the receptivity of the capital markets to initial public offerings or mergers and acquisitions of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, and general economic conditions in the technology and life science industries. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our historical levels of profitability in the face of sustained competitive pressures. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies, many of which are larger and have more capital than we do, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies, early stage growth companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges. we face risks in connection with completed or potential acquisitions. we completed one acquisition in each of 2002 and 2001 and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we intend to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are strategic. there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully or integrate such acquisitions with our current business. future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and/or contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. any such future acquisitions of other businesses, technologies, services, or products might require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all; and such financing, if available, might be dilutive. upon completion of an acquisition, we are faced with the challenges of integrating the operations, services, products, personnel, and systems of acquired companies into our business, which may divert management attention from ongoing business operations. in addition, acquisitions of new businesses may subject us to regulatory scrutiny. we cannot assure that we will be successful in integrating any acquired business effectively into the operations of our business. moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition will be realized. the success of our acquisitions is dependent on the continued employment of several key employees. if acquired businesses do not meet projected revenue targets, or if certain key employees were to leave the businesses, we could conclude that the value of the businesses has decreased and that the related goodwill has been impaired. if we were to conclude that goodwill has been impaired that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with international operations. a component of our strategy is to expand internationally on a limited basis, which requires management attention and resources. we already opened offices in the uk, india and china and plan to expand our operations in those locations and are exploring adding other locations. in addition to the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations and to expand our 22 international presence, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal and regulatory requirements, legal uncertainty regarding liability, tariffs, and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, differing technology standards or customer requirements, requirements or restrictions relating to making foreign direct investments, difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner, longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, problems in collecting loan or other types of payments, political and economic instability, seasonal reductions in business activity, changes in tax laws and potentially adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely affect the success of our international operations. in addition, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees and agents may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. to the extent we continue to expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we could become subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. since we have limited experience in globalizing our service, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding into international markets or that one or more of the factors discussed above will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance of new products and services. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and client demands. there is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. in addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products or services. a failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, or a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, or growth prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. results of operations earnings summary we reported consolidated net income of $92.5 million in 2005, as compared to consolidated net income of $63.9 million in 2004 and $13.0 million in 2003. diluted earnings per common share totaled $2.40 for 2005, as compared to $1.70 for 2004 and $0.35 for 2003. dilutive effect of contingently convertible debt on our diluted earnings per share calculation we included the dilutive effect of the $150.0 million zero-coupon, convertible subordinated notes due june 15, 2008 in our fully diluted earnings per share (eps) calculation using the treasury stock method, in accordance with the provisions of eitf 90-19, convertible bonds with issuer option to settle in cash upon conversion (eitf 90-19) and sfas no. 128, earnings per share (sfas no. 128). the exposure draft of sfas no. 128r, if adopted in its proposed form, will require us to change our accounting for the calculation of eps on our contingently convertible debt to the if converted method. the if converted treatment of the contingently convertible debt would have decreased eps by $0.18 per diluted common share, or 7.5 percent for 2005. in september 2004, the eitf reached final consensus on eitf 04-8, the effect of contingently convertible instruments on diluted earnings per share (eitf 04-8), that contingently convertible 37 securities should be treated as convertible securities and included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share. the potential dilutive effect of the contingently convertible debt using the treasury stock method was considered anti-dilutive in 2003, whereby the average price of our stock during the periods were less than the conversion price. the potential dilutive effect of the contingently convertible debt using the treasury stock method was approximately 1.3 million shares and 0.4 million shares as of december 31, 2005 and december 31, 2004, respectively. 2005 compared to 2004 increase in consolidated net income, increase in net income/noninterest income. consolidated net income increased by $28.7 million between 2005 and 2004. net interest income increased by $69.8 million primarily due to an increase in average interest-earning assets, and also due to an increase in yield earned on those assets, particularly loans. noninterest income increased by $9.7 million. the increase was primarily due to increases in client investment fees and gains on foreign exchange derivatives, partially offset by a decrease in deposit service charges. an increase in noninterest expense of $18.0 million was largely attributable to higher compensation and benefits expense of $9.7 million in 2005. in addition, we incurred higher professional services fees associated with the restatement of our financial statements and commitment of resources to adhere to the provisions of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. finally, our effective tax rate increased by 1.8% to 39.6% in 2005. 2004 compared to 2003 increase in consolidated net income increase in net interest income, decrease in impairment of goodwill expense consolidated net income increased by $50.8 million between 2004 and 2003: impairment of goodwill expense decreased by $61.1 million. in 2003, we recorded an impairment charge related to goodwill associated with the svb alliant acquisition of $63.0 million; net interest income increased by $46.3 million, primarily due to increased interest income from both investment securities and loans; and noninterest income increased by $26.4 million, primarily due to an increase of $14.8 million in returns on investments securities. in addition, corporate finance fees increased $9.8 million, an increase in letter of credit and standby letter of credit income of $1.1 million and an increase in client investment fees of $2.9 million, offset by reduced gains on derivative instruments of $3.9 million. these improvements to consolidated net income were partially offset by increases in certain noninterest expense categories, particularly compensation and benefits expense, which was higher in 2004 primarily due to variable compensation, attributable to our improved financial performance. additionally, we experienced an increase in professional services expense primarily due to expenses associated with sarbanes-oxley compliance. finally, our effective tax rate increased to 37.8% in 2004 from 24.2% in 2003. 38 the major components of net income and changes in these components are summarized in the following table for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and are discussed in more detail on the following pages. years ended december 31, % change % change 2005 2004 2005/2004 2003 2004/2003 (dollars in thousands) net interest income $ 299,293 $ 229,477 30.4 % $ 183,138 25.4 % provision for (recovery of) loan and lease losses 237 (10,289 ) (102.30 ) (9,892 ) 4.0 noninterest income 117,495 107,774 9.0 81,393 32.4 noninterest expense 259,860 241,830 7.5 264,896 (8.7 ) minority interest in net (income) losses of consolidated affiliates (3,396 ) (3,090 ) 9.9 7,689 (140.2 ) income before income tax expense 153,295 102,620 49.4 17,216 496.1 income tax expense 60,758 38,754 56.8 4,174 828.5 net income $ 92,537 $ 63,866 44.9 $ 13,042 389.7 return on average assets 1.78 % 1.34 % 0.32 % return on average stockholders equity 17.09 % 12.90 % 2.58 % average stockholders equity to average assets 10.43 % 10.38 % 12.44 % net interest income and margin net interest income is defined as the difference between interest earned (primarily on loans, investment securities and federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments) and interest paid on funding sources (such as deposits and borrowings). net interest income is our principal source of revenue. net interest margin is defined as the amount of net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average yield earned on interest-earning assets is the amount of taxable-equivalent interest income expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. the average rate paid on funding sources is defined as interest expense as a percentage of average funding sources. 39 the following table sets forth average assets, liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity, interest income and interest expense, average yields and rates, and the composition of our net interest margin for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate average balance interest income/ expense yield/ rate (dollars in thousands) interest-earning assets: federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments(1) $ 313,266 $ 9,531 3.04 % $ 607,460 $ 8,421 1.39 % $ 689,899 $ 8,024 1.16 % investment securities(2): taxable 1,900,027 83,950 4.42 1,630,677 69,839 4.28 982,442 38,733 3.94 non-taxable(3) 84,151 5,685 6.76 123,243 7,698 6.25 142,597 9,613 6.74 loans(4)(5)(6): commercial 1,969,204 194,018 9.85 1,613,689 141,179 8.75 1,506,929 129,405 8.59 real estate construction and term 159,123 10,032 6.30 120,568 6,511 5.40 98,720 5,989 6.07 consumer and other 240,035 15,233 6.35 217,398 9,914 4.56 192,341 8,192 4.26 total loans 2,368,362 219,283 9.26 1,951,655 157,604 8.08 1,797,990 143,586 7.99 total interest-earning assets 4,665,806 318,449 6.83 4,313,035 243,562 5.65 3,612,928 199,956 5.53 cash and due from banks 227,869 213,213 192,591 allowance for loan and lease losses (37,144 ) (48,249 ) (58,658 ) goodwill 35,638 37,066 91,992 other assets(2) 297,608 257,844 217,615 total assets $ 5,189,777 $ 4,772,909 $ 4,056,468 funding sources: interest-bearing liabilities: now deposits $ 33,196 135 0.41 $ 25,986 114 0.44 $ 23,447 105 0.45 regular money market deposits 406,843 2,834 0.70 513,699 2,587 0.50 332,632 1,824 0.55 bonus money market deposits 792,123 6,057 0.76 739,976 3,721 0.50 673,982 3,686 0.55 time deposits 297,286 1,908 0.64 329,336 2,001 0.61 485,199 3,468 0.71 federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 69,499 2,698 3.88 contingently convertible debt 147,181 941 0.64 146,255 943 0.64 73,791 572 0.78 junior subordinated debentures 49,309 2,330 4.73 49,366 1,505 3.05 23,823 3,026 12.70 other borrowings 8,035 263 3.27 16,605 520 3.13 40,903 772 1.89 total interest-bearing liabilities 1,803,472 17,166 0.95 1,821,223 11,391 0.63 1,653,777 13,453 0.81 portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 2,862,334 2,491,812 1,959,151 total funding sources 4,665,806 17,166 0.37 4,313,035 11,391 0.26 3,612,928 13,453 0.37 noninterest-bearing funding sources: demand deposits 2,637,028 2,296,411 1,762,306 other liabilities 114,012 100,920 79,079 trust preferred securities(7) 19,193 minority interest 93,839 59,152 37,481 stockholders equity 541,426 495,203 504,632 portion used to fund interest-earning assets (2,862,334 ) (2,491,812 ) (1,959,151 ) total liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity $ 5,189,777 $ 4,772,909 $ 4,056,468 net interest income and margin $ 301,283 6.46 % $ 232,171 5.39 % $ 186,503 5.16 % total deposits $ 4,166,476 $ 3,905,408 $ 3,277,566 (1) includes average interest-yielding deposits in other financial institutions of $20.4 million, $10.6 million, and $0.8 million, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (2) average noninterest-earning investment securities, primarily marketable and non-marketable equity securities, are excluded from the totals of investment securities and are included in other assets. average noninterest-earning investment securities amounted to $157.1 million, $107.6 million and $85.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the calculation of yield on available-for-sale securities is based on average historical cost and does not give effect to changes in fair value that are reflected in stockholders equity. (3) interest income on nontaxable investments is presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. these adjustments were $2.0 million, $2.7 million and $3.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (4) average loans include average nonaccrual loans of $13.0 million, $14.5 million and $16.1 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (5) average loans are net of average unearned income of $19.5 million, $16.4 million and $14.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 40 (6) loan interest income includes loan fees of $39.1 million, $31.9 million and $31.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (7) adoption of fin 46r in december 2003 and sfas no. 150 in may 2003 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities distribution expense from noninterest expense to interest expense on a prospective basis. additionally, the adoption of fin 46r and sfas no. 150 resulted in a change of classification of trust preferred securities from noninterest-bearing funding sources to interest-bearing liabilities on a prospective basis. prior to adoption of fin 46r and sfas no. 150, in accordance with accounting rules in effect at that time, we recorded trust preferred securities distribution expense as noninterest expense. on october 30, 2003, $50.0 million in cumulative 7.0% trust preferred securities were issued through a newly formed special purpose trust, svb capital ii. we received $51.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of 7.0% junior subordinated debentures to svb capital ii. a portion of the net proceeds were used to redeem the existing $40.0 million of 8.25% trust preferred securities. approximately $1.3 million of unamortized issuance costs related to redemption of the $40.0 million 8.25% trust preferred securities were included in interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2003. net interest income is affected by changes in the amount and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as volume change. net interest income is also affected by changes in yields earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as rate change . the following table sets forth changes in interest income for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest expense for each major category of interest-bearing liabilities. the table also reflects the amount of simultaneous changes attributable to both volume and rate changes for the years indicated. for this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated in proportion to the percentage changes in average volume and average rate. changes relating to investments in non-taxable municipal securities are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory tax rate of 35% for all years presented. 2005 compared to 2004 increase (decrease) due to changes in 2004 compared to 2003 increase (decrease) due to changes in volume rate total volume rate total (dollars in thousands) interest income: federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments $ (5,484 ) $ 6,594 $ 1,110 $ (1,029 ) $ 1,426 $ 397 investment securities 9,242 2,856 12,098 26,265 2,926 29,191 loans 36,575 25,104 61,679 12,393 1,625 14,018 increase in interest income 40,333 34,554 74,887 37,629 5,977 43,606 interest expense: now deposits 30 (9 ) 21 11 (2 ) 9 regular money market deposits (611 ) 858 247 922 (159 ) 763 bonus money market deposits 279 2,057 2,336 345 (310 ) 35 time deposits (202 ) 109 (93 ) (1,000 ) (467 ) (1,467 ) federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to resale 2,698 2,698 contingently convertible debt 6 (8 ) (2 ) 481 (110 ) 371 junior subordinated debentures (2 ) 827 825 1,802 (3,323 ) (1,521 ) other borrowings (280 ) 23 (257 ) (602 ) 350 (252 ) increase (decrease) in interest expense 1,918 3,857 5,775 1,959 (4,021 ) (2,062 ) increase in net interest income $ 38,415 $ 30,697 $ 69,112 $ 35,670 $ 9,998 $ 45,668 2005 compared to 2004 net interest income net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, totaled $301.3 million for 2005, an increase of $69.1 million, or 29.8% from 2004. the increase in net interest income was the result of a $74.9 million increase in interest income and offset by a $5.8 million increase in interest expense. 41 interest income net increase in interest-earning assets (volume variance) the $74.9 million increase in interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, was partially due to the result of a $40.3 million favorable volume variance. the favorable volume variance resulted from a $352.8 million, or 8.2% increase, in average interest-earning assets. increases in our sources of funding, largely non-interest bearing funding sources, were the main contributors to the increase in average interest-earning assets. average deposits increased $261.1 million due to a continued improved venture capital funding environment and a general improvement in business conditions for many of our clients. in addition, a decrease in federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments of $294.2 million was used to fund investments in loans and taxable securities. loans and taxable investment securities collectively increased $686.1 million. average investment securities increased by $230.3 million, resulting in a $9.2 million favorable volume variance. we estimated the duration of the total investment portfolio at december 31, 2005 to be 2.9 years, compared to 2.1 years at december 31, 2004. in addition, average loans increased by $416.7 million resulting in a $36.6 million favorable volume variance. the volume variance is largely driven by growth in our commercial loan category, which represented $355.5 million of the increase, followed by smaller increases in the real estate and consumer loan categories. in particular, the average balances of higher-yielding loan products such as asset-based loans and accounts receivable factoring increased by $51.0 million and $73.0 million, respectively. the increase in average loans reflects an improvement in economic activity and in the markets served by us. our loan yield in 2005 included $6.1 million from accretion of gross warrant loan fees as compared to $5.7 million in 2004. interest income change in market interest rates and shift in investment portfolio mix (rate variance) favorable rate variances associated with each component of interest earning assets caused a $34.6 million increase in interest income. the yield on average interest-earning assets increased 118 basis points overall, largely driven by higher yields generated by average loans and taxable investment securities. the increase in yields on interest-earning assets was primarily caused by: an increase in our prime lending rate, an increase in short-term market interest rates, a shift in the loan portfolio mix, and a shift in the average investment portfolio mix. the average yield on federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments for 2005 increased by 165 basis points to 3.04% from 1.39% resulting in a favorable rate variance of $6.6 million. the aforementioned increases in short-term market interest rates were largely responsible for this favorable rate variance. the average yield on taxable investment securities for 2005 increased 14 basis points to 4.42% from 4.28% in the comparable prior year period, causing a $2.9 million favorable rate variance associated with our average investment securities. this was primarily due to a shift in the composition of a portion of the investment portfolio to a slightly higher concentration of higher-yielding, mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. we realized a $25.1 million favorable rate variance associated with our loan portfolio, largely driven by a shift in loan product mix and increases in short-term market interest rates. on eight occasions during 2005 we increased our prime lending rate, each time by 25 basis points, bringing our prime rate to 7.25%, in response to increases in short-term market interest rates. our weighted-average prime lending rate 42 increased to 6.18% in 2005 from 4.34% in 2004. as of december 31, 2005, approximately 73.8%, or $2.1 billion of our total loan portfolio, were variable rate loans and would reprice with an increase in our prime lending rate. the increase in loan yields was also partially attributable to a shift in the composition of the loan portfolio to higher-yielding, asset-based lending and accounts receivable factoring products. interest expense total interest expense for 2005 increased by $5.8 million due to unfavorable rate variance of $3.9 million from an increase in interest expense related to money market deposits and an unfavorable volume variance of $1.9 million largely attributable to federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreement to repurchase. the unfavorable rate variance was also attributable to an increase in the average rates paid on our money market deposits, from 0.50% in 2004 to 0.70% in 2005 and on our bonus money market deposits, from 0.50% in 2004 to 0.76% in 2005. the increase in interest rates on these products was in response to increases in short-term market interest rates which became effective in the same period. during 2005 the average balance of federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreement to repurchase was $69.5 million and the average interest rate during the period was 3.88%. in 2003, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $50.0 million. this interest rate swap agreement hedges against the risk of changes in fair value associated with our 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. the terms of this fair value hedge agreement provide for a swap of our 7.0% fixed rate payment for a variable rate based on libor plus a spread. for 2005, we paid interest expense of $3.5 million on the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. however, the fair value hedge agreement provided a benefit of $1.2 million, resulting in net interest expense of $2.3 million for 2005, compared to $1.3 million for 2004. the average cost of funds paid increased 11 basis points in 2005 to 0.37%, changed from 0.26% for 2004. the increase in deposit rates resulted from our decision to increase rates for interest-bearing deposit accounts in response to recent increases in short-term market interest rates. 2004 compared to 2003 net interest income net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, totaled $232.2 million for 2004, an increase of $45.7 million, or 24.5%, from 2003. the increase in net interest income was the result of a $43.6 million increase in interest income and a $2.1 million decrease in interest expense. interest income net increase in interest-earning assets (volume variance) the $43.6 million increase in interest income for 2004, as compared to 2003, was primarily the result of a $37.6 million favorable volume variance. the favorable volume variance resulted from a $700.1 million, or 19.4% increase, in average interest-earning assets. we believe increases in our sources of funding, largely deposits, were the main contributors to the increase in average interest-earning assets. we believe deposits increased due to an improved venture capital funding environment and general improvements in business conditions for many of our clients. this increase in average interest-earning assets was primarily centered in investment securities, which increased $628.9 million, and loans, which increased $153.7 million. average investment securities increased by $628.9 million, resulting in a $26.3 million favorable volume variance. throughout 2004, we continued our investment strategy of changing the investment portfolio mix by increasing the portion of the portfolio invested in relatively higher-yielding mortgage- 43 backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. our average investments in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations collectively increased by $564.8 million for 2004 as compared to 2003, largely funded by increases in client deposits. we estimated the duration of our investment portfolio increased to 2.1 years at december 31, 2004, from 1.7 years at december 31, 2003. the increase in duration was primarily due to the increase in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations whose average duration is typically in the 2 to 5 year range. in addition, average loans increased by $153.7 million, or 8.5% in 2004 as compared to 2003, resulting in a $12.4 million favorable volume variance. the volume variance is largely driven by growth in our commercial loan category, which increased by $106.8 million. in particular, the average balances of higher-yielding loan products such as asset-based loans and accounts receivable factoring increased by $39.4 million and $68.6 million, respectively. in addition, we also grew our average real estate and consumer loan portfolios. the increase in average loans reflects an improvement in economic activity and in the markets served by us. these new loans continue to be subject to our existing underwriting practices. our strategy is to grow average loans modestly during 2005 as our corporate technology efforts continue to develop. our loan yield in 2004 included $5.7 million from accretion of gross warrant loan fees as compared to $6.6 million in 2003. average federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments for 2004 decreased by $82.4 million, or 11.9%, resulting in a $1.0 million unfavorable volume variance. interest income shift in the composition of average interest-earning assets (rate variance) favorable rate variances associated with each component of interest-earning assets caused a $6.0 million increase in interest income in 2004 as compared to 2003. although the yields on federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities increased and the yield on loans remained unchanged, the yield on total average interest-earning assets remained relatively unchanged. the overall yield remained unchanged due to a change in the mix of our total average interest-earning assets. in 2004, investment securities represented 40.7% of our total average interest-earning assets and loans represented 45.3% of our total average interest-earning assets. in 2003, investment securities represented 31.1% of our total average interest-earning assets, and loans represented 49.8% of our total average interest-earning assets. thus, the increase in yields on federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities in 2004 as compared to 2003 was offset by the change in overall composition of our interest-earning assets. we increased our prime lending rate by 25 basis points on each of five occasions in the latter half of 2004, increasing it from 4.00% to 5.25%. as of december 31, 2004, approximately 81.3%, or $1.9 billion, of our outstanding loans were variable rate loans, which would re-price with any further increase or any decrease in our prime lending rate, unless restricted by the terms of any such loans. the yield on investment securities increased by 12 basis points to 4.42% in 2004 from 4.30% for 2003, causing a $2.9 million favorable rate variance. this was primarily due to a shift in the composition of a portion of the investment portfolio to relatively higher-yielding mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations. we also realized a $1.4 million favorable rate variance associated with our federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments, which is largely driven by higher short-term market interest rates in 2004 as compared to 2003. we expect to continue the trend of managing federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investments at appropriate levels for our liquidity needs. 44 interest expense total interest expense for 2004 decreased by $2.1 million from 2003, despite a $167.4 million, or 10.1% increase in our interest-bearing liabilities. the decrease in interest expense was primarily the result of a $4.0 million favorable rate variance, partially offset by a $1.9 million unfavorable volume variance. we experienced a favorable rate variance of $4.0 million primarily due to lower interest expense related to borrowing. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we recognized $1.3 million in unamortized issuance costs associated with the early redemption of the $40.0 million, 8.25% trust preferred securities. also, in the fourth quarter of 2003, we issued $51.5 million in 7.0% junior subordinated debentures and simultaneously entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $50.0 million. this interest rate swap agreement hedges against the risk of changes in fair value associated with our 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. the terms of this fair value hedge agreement provide for a swap of our 7.0% fixed rate payment for a variable rate based on libor plus a spread. for 2004, we paid interest expense of $3.5 million on the 7.0% junior subordinated debentures. however, the fair value hedge agreement provided income of $2.2 million, resulting in net interest expense of $1.3 million for 2004. there were significant fluctuations in several line items of the total interest expense volume variance, which largely offset each other. in particular, the implementation sfas no. 150 and fin 46 in mid-2003 required us to reclassify our trust preferred securities to the long-term debt category during 2003. additionally, these accounting pronouncements also required us to classify the trust preferred securities distribution expense as interest expense, on a prospective basis. the trust preferred distribution expense had previously been classified as noninterest expense. increases in regular money market and bonus money market deposits contributed a $1.3 million unfavorable variance to the total interest expense volume variance. this unfavorable volume variance was largely offset by lower time deposits, which provided a $1.0 million favorable volume variance. due to the general improvement in the venture capital funding environment, highly-liquid money market deposits increased by $247.1 million, while longer-term time deposits have decreased by $155.9 million. our clients may use time deposits as collateral for letters of credit issued by silicon valley bank on their behalf, to certain third parties such as real estate lessors. we believe time deposits have decreased partly because of a softer real estate market, which generally reduces the frequency of these types of arrangements. moreover, due to the general improvement in the economic environment, borrowings secured by time deposits have decreased. a shift of client funds from time deposits to more liquid money market deposits also contributed to the favorable rate variance. the average cost of funds of 0.26% for 2004 represented a decrease from 0.37% in 2003. the decrease was largely attributable to a decrease in the cost of borrowings and to a relative increase in noninterest-bearing funding sources as a percentage of total funding sources. provision for loan losses the provision for loan losses is based on our evaluation of the adequacy of the existing allowance for loan and lease losses in relation to total loans and on our periodic assessment of the inherent and identified risk dynamics of the loan portfolio resulting from reviews of selected individual loans and loan commitments. for a more detailed discussion of credit quality and the allowance for loan and lease losses, see item 7. critical accounting policies and item 7. financial condition credit quality and the allowance for loan and lease losses. 45 2005 compared to 2004 we recorded a provision for loan and lease losses of $0.2 million for 2005, compared to a recovery of $10.3 million for 2004. we incurred net charge offs of approximately $1.1 million for 2005 compared to net charge-offs of $2.0 million for 2004, respectively. credit quality remained strong with nonperforming loans at 0.26% of total gross loans. see financial condition - credit quality and the allowance for loan and lease losses for additional related discussion. 2004 compared to 2003 continued improved credit quality prompts further recovery of provision for loan losses we realized a recovery of provision for loan losses of $10.3 million in 2004 compared to a recovery of provision for loan losses of $9.9 million in 2003. in 2003, our loan loss recoveries exceeded loan charge offs by $1.4 million. we incurred net charge-offs of approximately $2.0 million in 2004 and credit quality remained strong with nonperforming loans at 0.64% of gross loans. we believe the improvement in the recovery of loan losses was primarily attributable to our improved credit risk management and to improved economic conditions. noninterest income the following table summarizes the components of noninterest income and the percent change from year to year: years ended december 31, %change %change 2005 2004 2005/2004 2003 2004/2003 (dollars in thousands) client investment fees $ 33,255 $ 26,919 23.5 % $ 23,991 12.2 % gains on derivative instruments, net 24,656 16,325 51.0 20,200 (19.2 ) corporate finance fees 22,063 22,024 0.2 12,204 80.5 letter of credit and standby letter of credit income 10,007 9,994 0.1 8,912 12.1 deposit service charges 9,805 13,538 (27.6 ) 13,202 2.5 gains (losses) on investment securities, net 4,307 5,198 (17.1 ) (9,614 ) (154.1 ) credit card fees 3,691 2,817 31.0 3,431 (17.9 ) other 9,711 10,959 (11.4 ) 9,067 20.9 % total noninterest income $ 117,495 $ 107,774 9.0 % $ 81,393 32.4 % at december 31, 2005 at december 31, 2004 at december 31, 2003 (dollars in millions) client investment funds(1): client directed investment funds $ 8,863 $ 7,208 $ 7,615 client investment assets under management 3,857 2,678 592 sweep money market funds 2,247 1,351 1,139 total client investment funds $ 14,967 $ 11,237 $ 9,346 (1) client funds invested through svb financial group, maintained at third party financial institutions. 46 2005 compared to 2004 we offer investment products and services that include mutual funds and other investments, sweep products, and asset management services to our clients. our fees, calculated on clients average balances, ranged from 6 to 75 basis points (fixed income securities and federated sweep, respectively) as of december 31, 2005, compared to a range of 9 to 70 basis points as of december 31, 2004. total client investment funds were $15.0 billion at december 31, 2005, compared to $11.2 billion at december 31, 2004. client investment assets under management at december 31, 2005, accounted for 25.8%, of total client investment funds compared to 23.8% at december 31, 2004. mutual fund products were $7.8 billion at december 31, 2005 and $6.2 billion at december 31, 2004. client investment fee income for 2005 of $33.3 million was $6.3 million higher than $26.9 million for 2004. the increased income in 2005 as compared to 2004 was largely attributable to the overall growth in client investment fund balances. gains on derivatives increased by $8.3 million. the gains were primarily due to client related foreign exchange forward contracts which increased by $5.2 million or 37.1%. we believe that a general improvement in business conditions for many of our clients and increased international trading was the primary driver behind a higher volume of client foreign exchange transactions. gains (losses) on foreign exchange forward contracts related to our foreign currency denominated loans improved by $2.5 million from a loss of $0.4 million in 2004 to a gain of $2.1 million in 2005. the change in gains (losses) from these foreign exchange forward contracts was related to changes in the value of the underlying contracts caused by fluctuations in the foreign exchange market. (see table below). the following table summarizes the components of gains on derivative instruments, net, for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, and the percent changes from period to period: years ended december 31, 2005 2004 % change 2005/2004 (dollars in thousands) foreign exchange forwards(1) $ 19,183 $ 13,997 37.1 % foreign exchange forwards(2) 2,133 (421 ) (606.7 ) total gains on foreign exchange forwards 21,316 13,576 57.0 equity warrant assets change in fair value: cancellations and expirations (2,952 ) (2,424 ) 21.8 other changes in fair value 6,292 5,173 21.6 total gains on equity warrant assets 3,340 2,749 21.5 total gains on derivative instruments, net $ 24,656 $ 16,325 51.0 % (1) represents the income differential between foreign exchange forward contracts/non-deliverable foreign exchange forward contracts with clients and opposite way foreign exchange forward contracts/non-deliverable foreign exchange forward contracts with correspondent banks. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management a key objective of asset/liability management is to manage interest rate risk associated with changing asset and liability cash flows and market interest rate movements. interest rate risk occurs when interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities do not re-price simultaneously either in timing, volume or both. our alco provides oversight to our interest rate risk management process and recommends policy guidelines regarding exposure to interest rates for approval by our board of directors. adherence to these policies is monitored on an ongoing basis, and decisions related to the management of interest rate exposure are made when appropriate. we manage interest rate risk principally through strategies involving our investment securities portfolio. our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments in managing interest rate risk. derivative instruments that we use as a part of our interest risk management strategy may include interest rate swaps, caps and floors, and forward contracts. we had a fair value hedge in effect at december 31, 2005. this hedge is a $50.0 million fixed-for-variable swap of our 7% junior subordinated debentures, described in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk factors that may affect future results. item 9b. other information none. part iii. item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant the information set forth under the sections titled proposal no. 1 election of directors , information on executive officers , board committees and meeting attendance , section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance and code of ethics contained in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2006 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. item 11. executive compensation the information set forth under the sections titled information on executive officers , report of the compensation committee of the board on executive compensation , summary compensation table , option grants in last fiscal year , aggregated option exercises in last fiscal year and fiscal year-end option values , employment contracts and termination of employment and change in control arrangements , return to stockholders performance graph , and director compensation contained in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2006 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. 159 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information set forth under the sections titled security ownership of directors and executive officers and security ownership of principal stockholders contained in the definitive proxy statement for svb financial group 2006 annual meeting of stockholders is incorporated herein by reference. our stockholders have approved each of our active equity compensation plans. the following table provides certain information as of december 31, 2005 with respect to our equity compensation plans: plan category number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights(a)(1) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c)(2) equity compensation plans approved by stockholder 6,024,455 $ 28.84 1,784,765 equity compensation plans not approved by stockholder n/a n/a n/a total 6,024,455 $ 28.84 1,784,765 (1) represents options granted under our amended and restated 1997 equity incentive plan and amended and restated 1989 stock option plan. this number does not include securities to be issued for unvested restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards of 253,848 shares. (2) includes shares available for issuance under our amended and restated 1997 equity incentive plan. this table does not include 986,613 shares available for issuance under the 1999 employee stock purchase plan. for additional information concerning our equity compensation plans, refer toquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market ris k interest rate risk management a key objective of asset/liability management is to manage interest rate risk associated with changing asset and liability cash flows and market interest rate movements. interest rate risk occurs when interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities do not re-price simultaneously both in timing and volume. our asset/liability committee provides oversight to our interest rate risk management process and recommends policy guidelines regarding exposure to interest rates for approval by our board of directors. adherence to these policies is monitored on an ongoing basis, and decisions related to the management of interest rate exposure are made when appropriate. we manage interest rate risk principally through strategies involving our investment securities and funding portfolios. our policies also permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments in managing interest rate risk. we had a fair value hedge in effect at december 31, 2006. this hedge is a $50.0 million fixed-for-variable swap of our 7% junior subordinated debentures, described inrisk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. credit risks if our clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. as a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, which results in a charge to our earnings. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. many of our loans are made to companies in the early stages of development with negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. in many cases, repayment of the loan is dependent upon receipt of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others. collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in our technology and life sciences industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. additionally, we are increasing our lending to larger private equity firms and corporate technology clients, including some companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, and have increased the average size of our loans over time. these changes could affect the risk of borrower default and increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. for all of these reasons, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and additional allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans may also have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and market perceptions of us. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we offer some interest-bearing deposit 16 table of contents products, most of our deposit products are non-interest bearing. our interest-earning assets include loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. changes in interest rates impact our interest rate spread. increases in market interest rates will likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. recent decreases in market interest rates have caused our interest rate spread to decline, which reduces our net income. unexpected interest rate declines may also adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. in addition to general changes in the level of interest rates, increases in the interest rates we pay on amounts used to fund assets or decreases in the interest rates we receive on our interest-earning assets could affect our interest rate spread. for example, since 2006 we have funded our loan growth primarily through short- and long-term borrowings. these funds carry meaningfully higher interest rate costs than our current deposit base. if we significantly increase the amount of our assets that we fund through borrowings rather than deposits, our interest rate spread will likely decline. similarly, if we significantly increase the amount of our assets that we fund through interest-bearing deposits, or increase the rates we pay on those deposits, our interest rate spread likely would decline. interest rates paid by us could be affected by competitive, legislative or other developments. for example, in 2007 we introduced two new interest-bearing deposit products, intended to enhance our deposit levels to support our loan growth, and in the future, we may introduce additional interest-bearing deposit products. in addition, congress has for many years debated repealing a law that prohibits banks from paying interest rates on checking accounts. if this law were to be repealed, we would be subject to competitive pressure to pay interest on our clients checking accounts. the interest rates we receive on our interest-earning assets could be affected by a variety of factors, including market interest rates, competition, a change over time in the mix of loans comprising our loan portfolio and the mix of loans and investment securities on our balance sheet. any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. our business is dependent upon access to funds on attractive terms. consequently, a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. we derive our net interest income through lending or investing capital on terms that provide returns in excess of our costs for obtaining that capital. as a result, our credit ratings are important to our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs or increase the interest rates we pay on deposits. further, our credit ratings and the terms upon which we have access to capital may be influenced by circumstances beyond our control, such as overall trends in the general market environment, perceptions about our creditworthiness or market conditions in the industries in which we focus. equity warrant asset, private equity fund and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. we historically have obtained rights to acquire stock, in the form of equity warrant assets, in certain clients as part of negotiated credit facilities and for other services. we also have made investments in private equity funds as well as direct equity investments in companies. the timing and amount of income, if any, from the disposition of equity warrant assets, securities obtained through the exercise of equity warrant assets, private equity funds and direct equity investments, as well as the fair market value of these rights and investments, typically depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying portfolio companies, investor demand for initial public offerings ( ipos ), fluctuations in the market prices of the 17 table of contents underlying common stock of these companies, levels of merger and acquisition activity and legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell securities and investments. in future periods, we may not be able to continue to obtain equity warrant assets to the same extent we historically have achieved, we may not realize gains from the exercise of equity warrant assets, the gains realized upon the sale of the securities obtained through the exercise of equity warrant assets and the gains realized upon the sale of our fund or direct equity investments may be materially less than the current fair value of equity warrant assets reflected in our financial statements, or the fair market value of some or all of these equity warrant assets could decline. each of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. all of these factors are difficult to predict. due to the nature of investing and holding equity warrant assets in private equity venture-backed technology and life science companies, it is likely that investments within our portfolio will become impaired. however, we are not in a position to know at the present time which specific investments, if any, are likely to become impaired or the extent or timing of individual impairments. therefore, we cannot predict future investment gains or losses with any degree of accuracy, and any gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients can cause loans to be paid off early, which could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. any significant reduction in our outstanding loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we believe that our employees frequently have opportunities for alternative employment with other organizations, including competing financial institutions and our clients. changes to our employee compensation structure could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit and retain certain key employees. in may 2006, in an effort to align our option grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we committed to restrict the total number of shares of our common stock issued under stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, stock bonus awards and any other equity awards granted during a fiscal year as a percentage of the total number of shares outstanding on a prospective basis. we may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other forms of equity compensation. our decision to reduce the number of option shares to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other future changes we may adopt in our employee compensation structures, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit and retain certain key employees. the occurrence of breaches of security in our online banking services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. the secure transmission of confidential information and execution of transactions over the internet is essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and to maintain our clients confidence in our online services. increases in criminal 18 table of contents activity levels, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect client transaction data, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, affect our ability to grow our online services business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we are in the process of implementing our business continuity program, which is a multi-year effort. we began implementing during 2005, but it has not yet been completed. there is no assurance that our business continuity program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services, we have developed and purchased or 19 table of contents licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in these systems and processes. these investments may affect our future profitability. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively and timely improve our systems and processes to meet our business needs efficiently, whether by improving existing systems and processes or adding or transitioning to new systems and processes. any interruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems or processes, or any failure to effectively and timely improve these systems and processes to meet our business needs, could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may assume that a customer audited financial statements conform to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we rely on financial statements or other information that do not comply with gaap or that are materially misleading or inaccurate. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with gaap and reflect management judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, fasb or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. 20 table of contents legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws governing financial institutions. federal and state laws and regulations govern, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital, which may affect our ability to use our capital for other business purposes. in addition, increased regulatory requirements, whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. if we were to violate federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and reputation. federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, finra and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our subsidiaries svb alliant and svb securities. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and reputation. svb financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings, if any, and, should svb financial elect to pay dividends. various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. strategic/reputation risks adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology sector, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth and profitability. if conditions deteriorate in the domestic or global economy, especially in the technology, life science, private equity and premium wine industry niches, our business, growth and profitability may be materially adversely affected. a global, u.s. or significant regional economic slowdown or recession could harm us by adversely affecting our clients and prospective clients access to capital to fund their businesses, their ability to sustain and grow their businesses, the level of funds they have available to maintain deposits, their demand for loans, their ability to repay loans and otherwise. 21 table of contents decreases in the amount of equity capital available to start-up and emerging-growth companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. historically, our strategy has focused on providing banking products and services to emerging-growth companies receiving financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capitalists, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these emerging growth companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive a second or third round of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies are the receptivity of the capital markets ipos or mergers and acquisitions of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments and general economic conditions in the technology and life science industries. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to startup and emerging-growth companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. additionally, such reduced valuations may decrease the value of our investment portfolio, in which we hold direct equity investments and warrants in these companies, as well as investments in funds that invest in these companies, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition and future growth. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, many of which are larger than we are, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds, which currently have very significant amounts of capital available to invest and lend. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies, early stage growth companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, profitability, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business and our ability to secure attractive engagements in our investment banking business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. a failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may engage in strategic activities, which could include acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there 22 table of contents can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking anticipated benefits. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with international operations. one component of our strategy is to expand internationally. to date, we have opened offices in china, india, israel and the united kingdom. we plan to expand our operations in those locations and may expand beyond these countries. our efforts to expand our business internationally carries with it certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, differing technology standards or customer requirements, political and economic risks and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operation and financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the private equity community and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, or our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities and changes in the shape and level of the yield curve. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by the asset/liability committee (alco), which is a management committee. alco reviews sensitivities of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis and decisions related to the management of interest rate exposure are made, as appropriate. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our investment securities and funding portfolios. in addition, our policies permit off-balance sheet derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the market value of portfolio equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet. we also use traditional gap analysis to provide a simple indicator of interest rate risk. gap analysis provides only a static view of interest rate sensitivity at a point in time, while the simulation model measures the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. management reviews our interest rate risk position at a minimum, on a quarterly basis. market value of portfolio equity and net interest income one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our market value of portfolio equity ( mvpe ). mvpe is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ). 80 table of contents the following table presents our mvpe and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2007 and 2006, related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. change in interest rates (basis points) estimated mvpe estimated increase/ (decrease) in mvpe estimated nii estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii amount percent amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2007: +200 $ 1,151,955 $ 33,654 3.0 % $ 461,965 $ 45,942 11.0 % +100 1,138,790 20,489 1.8 439,489 23,466 5.6 1,118,301 416,023 -100 1,081,469 (36,832 ) (3.3 ) 393,817 (22,206 ) (5.3 ) -200 $ 1,045,298 $ (73,003 ) (6.5 )% $ 367,161 $ (48,862 ) (11.7 )% december 31, 2006: +200 $ 1,054,640 $ (157 ) % $ 441,824 $ 35,898 8.8 % +100 1,053,017 (1,780 ) (0.2 ) 424,034 18,108 4.5 1,054,797 405,926 -100 1,040,079 (14,718 ) (1.4 ) 384,080 (21,846 ) (5.4 ) -200 $ 1,001,861 $ (52,936 ) (5.0 )% $ 358,625 $ (47,301 ) (11.7 )% the estimated mvpe in the preceding table is based on a discounted cash flow analysis using market interest rates provided by independent broker/dealers and other publicly available sources that we deem reliable. these estimates are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes and as interest rate environments evolve. these calculations do not reflect changes we may make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates. we expect to continue to manage our interest rate risk utilizing on and off-balance sheet strategies, as appropriate. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to basis risk, yield curve risk, and prepayment risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our base case mvpe at december 31, 2007 increased from december 31, 2006 by $63.5 million, primarily due to growth in our loan portfolio. mvpe sensitivity in simulated interest rate movements increased due to the issuance of senior and subordinated debt in 2007. our expected 12-month nii at december 31, 2007 increased from december 31, 2006 by $10.1 million, due to the strong loan growth which outweighed the increased interest expense associated with new deposit products and the debt issuance. nii sensitivity in simulated interest rate movements increased in rising rates and experienced minimal change in declining rates. changes in pricing strategies may differ from current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. interest rate sensitivity gap analysis the interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that are anticipated to re-price within a specific time period. a gap is considered positive when the amount of interest rate sensitive assets exceeds the amount of interest-sensitive liabilities re-pricing within that same time period. positive cumulative gaps in early time periods suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates rise. negative cumulative gaps suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates fall. the gap analysis as of december 31, 2007 indicates that the cumulative one-year gap as a percentage of total assets was a positive 37.9%. 81 table of contents the following table illustrates our interest rate sensitivity gap positions at december 31, 2007: assets and liabilities that mature or reprice immediately 1 day to 1 month after 1 month to 3 months after 3 months to 6 months after 6 months to 1 year after 1 year to 5 years after 5 years not stated total assets: cash and due from bank, securities purchased under agreement to resell and other short-term investment securities (1) $ $ 358,664 $ $ $ $ $ $ 325,399 $ 684,063 investment securities: u.s. treasury securities and agencies obligations (2) 39,757 29,871 111,580 181,208 collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-backed securities (2) 24,048 28,194 44,219 264,051 468,360 159,779 988,651 other debt, marketable equity and non-marketable securities 5,277 2,936 12,268 16,981 395,253 432,715 total investment securities 24,048 33,471 86,912 306,190 596,921 555,032 1,602,574 loans, net of unearned income (3) 2,970,997 170,098 117,348 85,482 144,539 592,903 70,363 4,151,730 allowance for loan losses (47,293 ) (47,293 ) other assets 301,382 301,382 total assets $ 2,970,997 $ 505,517 $ 150,819 $ 172,394 $ 450,729 $ 1,189,824 $ 625,395 $ 626,781 $ 6,692,456 liabilities, minority interest and stockholders equity: deposits: noninterest-bearing demand $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 3,226,859 $ 3,226,859 now and money market 20,778 40,210 57,097 103,513 480,632 274,921 977,151 time 133,203 46,455 50,642 104,305 505 335,110 foreign sweep 1,514 2,933 4,172 7,588 35,702 20,174 72,083 total deposits 155,495 89,598 111,911 215,406 516,839 295,095 3,226,859 4,611,203 short-term borrowings 90,000 90,000 other liabilities 199,243 199,243 long-term fhlb advances 150,000 150,000 5.70% senior notes 259,706 259,706 6.05% subordinated notes 261,099 261,099 contingently convertible debt 149,269 149,269 7.0% junior subordinated debentures 52,511 52,511 other long-term debt 2,669 2,669 minority interest in capital of consolidated affiliates 240,102 240,102 stockholders equity 676,654 676,654 total liabilities, minority interest, and stockholders equity $ $ 444,738 $ 239,598 $ 261,180 $ 267,917 $ 779,214 $ 556,194 $ 4,143,615 $ 6,692,456 off-balance sheet items: interest rate swaps $ $ (550,000 ) $ $ $ 50,000 $ 250,000 $ 250,000 $ $ gap 2,970,997 (489,221 ) (88,779 ) (88,786 ) 232,812 660,610 319,201 (3,516,834 ) cumulative gap $ 2,970,997 $ 2,481,776 $ 2,392,997 $ 2,304,211 $ 2,537,023 $ 3,197,633 $ 3,516,834 $ $ (1) includes interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $74.3 million as of december 31, 2007. (2) principal cash flows are based on estimated principal payments as of december 31, 2007. (3) maturity/repricing columns for fixed rate loans are based upon the amount and timing of related principal payments as of december 31, 2007. 82 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management report on internal control over financial reporting (item 9a(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on assessed risk. our audit also included performing other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007 based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2007, and our report dated february 29, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california february 29, 2008 83 table of contentsrisk factors our business faces significant risks, including current market environment, credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. risks relating to current market environment the continuation or worsening of current market and economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations and ability to access capital. the united states is currently in a serious economic downturn, as are economies around the world. financial markets are volatile, business and consumer spending has declined, and overall business activities have slowed, including a slowdown over the past several quarters in mergers, acquisitions and initial public offerings of companies events upon which the venture capital and private equity community relies to exit their investments. if current market and economic conditions persist, our clients will continue to be adversely impacted, as well as our investment returns, valuations of companies and overall levels of venture capital and private equity investments, which may have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a worsening of these conditions could likely exacerbate the adverse affect on us. as a result of current economic conditions, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. svb financial depends on access to equity and debt markets as one of its primary sources to raise capital. if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. recent and future legislation and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the u.s. banking system or reviving the overall economy. recent and future legislative and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions, such as the eesa or the arra, may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the u.s. banking system or reviving the overall economy. eesa was enacted in october 2008 to restore confidence and stabilize the volatility in the u.s. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. treasury and banking regulators have implemented, and likely will continue to implement, various programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including tarp, the cpp, president obama financial stability plan announced in february 2009, and the arra. there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that any of the recent, or future, legislative and regulatory initiatives will have on the financial markets and the overall economy. any failure of these initiatives to help stabilize or improve the financial markets and the economy, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 18 table of contents additional requirements under our regulatory framework, especially those imposed under arra, eesa or other legislation intended to strengthen the u.s. financial system, could adversely affect us. recent government efforts to strengthen the u.s. financial system, including the implementation of arra, eesa, and the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) temporary liquidity guaranty program ( tlgp ), subject participants to additional regulatory fees and requirements, including corporate governance requirements, executive compensation restrictions, restrictions on declaring or paying dividends, restrictions on share repurchases, limits on executive compensation tax deductions and prohibitions against golden parachute payments. these requirements, and any other requirements that may be subsequently imposed, may have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. credit risks if our clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. as a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. in addition, the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging-technology, early-stage and mid-stage companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans is dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party or a public offering. in recent periods, due to the overall weakening of the economic environment, venture capital financing activity has slowed, and initial public offerings ( ipos ) and merger/acquisition ( m&amp;a ) activities have slowed significantly. if economic conditions worsen or do not improve, such activities may slow down even further. venture capital firms may provide financing at lower levels, more selectively or on less favorable terms, which may have an adverse affect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in our technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. additionally, we may enter into accounts receivable financing arrangements with our company clients. the repayment of these arrangements is dependent on the financial condition, and payment ability, of third parties with whom our clients do business. such third parties may be unable to meet their financial obligations to our clients, especially in a weakened economic environment. in our portfolio of venture capital and private equity firm clients, many of our clients have capital call lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls by the underlying limited partner 19 table of contents investors in the funds managed by these firms. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. additionally, we have been increasing our efforts to lend to corporate technology clients, including some companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, and have increased the average size of our loans over time. at december 31, 2008, our gross loan portfolio included a total of $1.15 billion, or 20.7 percent, of individual loans greater than $20 million. increasing our larger loan commitments could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. for all of these reasons, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and additional allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and market perceptions of us. the borrowing needs of our clients may be volatile, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material effect on our business, profitability, results of operations and reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. at december 31, 2008, we had $5.6 billion in total unfunded credit commitments. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective venture capital/private equity firms. or, limited partner investors of our venture capital/private equity fund clients facing liquidity or other financing issues may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments, which may impact our clients borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients, may have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, results of operations and reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for unfunded credit commitments to reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve in any period may result in a charge to our earnings as a provision for unfunded credit commitments, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest- 20 table of contents earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we are increasingly offering more interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our non-interest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, a change over time in the mix of loans comprising our loan portfolio or deposits compromising our deposit portfolio and the mix of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in market interest rates, such as the federal funds rate, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities because of the composition of our balance sheet, increases in market interest rates will likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. recent decreases in market interest rates have caused our interest rate spread to decline significantly, which reduces our net income. sustained low levels of market interest rates will likely continue to put pressure on our profitability. unexpected interest rate declines may also adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. any material reduction in our interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business. an inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, equity/debt offerings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a reduction in our credit ratings, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness or our overall reputation. equity warrant asset, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. we obtain rights to acquire stock in the form of equity warrant assets in certain clients as part of negotiated credit facilities and for other services. we also make investments in venture capital and private equity funds and direct investments in companies. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from the disposition of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our 21 table of contents control, including investor demand for initial public offerings, levels of merger and acquisition activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell, and the perceived and actual performance and future value of portfolio companies. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are made, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be less than the then-current recorded fair market value. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on the number of warrants we obtain, and in future periods, we may not be able to continue to obtain such equity warrant assets to the same extent we historically have achieved. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. the current economic conditions reflect a slowdown in such transactions, however if the levels of such transactions were to increase, our total outstanding loans may decline. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. failure to raise additional funds from third-party investors for our funds managed by svb capital may require us to use capital to fund commitments to other funds, which may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and reputation. from time to time, we form new investment funds through our funds management division, svb capital. these funds include funds that invest in other venture capital and private equity funds (which we refer to as funds of funds) and portfolio companies (which we refer to as direct equity funds). our managed funds are typically structured as limited partnerships, heavily funded by third party limited partners and ultimately managed by us through our svb capital division. we typically will also make a commitment of significant capital to each of these funds as a limited partner. prior to forming a new fund of funds, svb financial has made and may make investment commitments intended for the new fund, in order to show potential investors the types of funds in which the new fund will invest. until these investments are transferred to the new fund, which typically will occur upon the acceptance of binding commitments from third-party limited partners (the closing ), these investments are obligations of svb financial. if we fail to attract sufficient capital from third-party investors to conduct the closing of a fund of funds, we may be required to permanently allocate capital to these investments when we otherwise had intended them to be temporary obligations. if, under such circumstances, we decide to sell these investments or fail to meet our obligations, we may lose some or all of the capital that has already been deployed and may be subject to legal claims. any unexpected permanent allocation of capital toward these investments, loss of capital contributed to these investments or legal claims against us could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition, as well as our reputation. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including 22 table of contents brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including regulatory restrictions on compensation practices (such as those under eesa as amended by the arra) or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. the manner in which we structure our employee compensation could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit and retain key employees. in may 2006, in an effort to align our equity grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we committed to restrict the total number of shares of our common stock issued under stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, stock bonus awards and any other equity awards granted during a fiscal year as a percentage of the total number of shares outstanding on a prospective basis. in light of this restriction, we may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other cash-settled forms of equity compensation, which may result in an additional charge to our earnings. how we structure our equity compensation may also have an adverse affect on our ability to attract, recruit and retain key employees. our decision in may 2006 to reduce equity awards to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other similar changes limiting our equity awards that we may adopt in the future, could negatively impact our hiring and retention strategies. moreover, current economic conditions have reduced our share price, causing existing employee options and equity awards to have exercise prices higher in some cases, meaningfully higher than our current share price. these factors could adversely affect our ability to attract, recruit and retain certain key employees. the occurrence of breaches of our information security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. information pertaining to us and our clients are maintained, and transactions are executed, on our internal networks and internet-based systems, such as our online banking system. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and to maintain our clients confidence. increases in criminal activity levels, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, affect our ability to grow our online services or other businesses, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents more generally, publicized information security problems could inhibit the growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services, we have developed and purchased or licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse affect on our operations. or, we may outsource certain operational functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies, which if not performed properly, could also have an adverse affect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we are in the process of implementing our business continuity and disaster recovery program, which is a multi-year effort. we began implementing the program during 2005, but it has not yet been completed. there is no assurance that our business continuity and disaster recovery program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as india, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance 24 table of contents with our expectations could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with gaap and reflect management judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, fasb or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from nasdaq. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. 25 table of contents legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the federal reserve or the dfi. federal and state laws and regulations govern, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital, which may affect our ability to use our capital for other business purposes. in addition, increased regulatory requirements, whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. if we were to violate international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, nasdaq, the financial industry regulatory authority ( finra ) and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our subsidiary, svb securities. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and reputation. svb financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings, if any, and dividends, should svb financial elect to pay any. various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. strategic/reputation risks adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in our industry niches, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth and profitability. overall deterioration in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine industry niches or overall financial capital markets, may materially adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. a global, u.s. or significant regional economic slowdown or recession, such as the current economic downturn, could harm us by adversely affecting our clients and prospective clients access to capital to fund their businesses, their ability to sustain and grow their 26 table of contents businesses, the level of funds they have available to maintain deposits, their demand for loans, their ability to repay loans and otherwise. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our business. our clients are concentrated by industry niches: technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage or mid-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business or results of operations. due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to emerging technology stage to mid-stage companies, that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, ipo or mergers and acquisitions of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments and general economic conditions in the technology, life science and venture capital/private equity industries. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. because our business and strategy are largely based on this venture capital/private equity financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including adverse trends in investment or fundraising levels, may have a materially adverse affect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition and future growth. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, many of which are larger than we are, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, 27 table of contents which could adversely affect our business, profitability, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, profitability, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business and our ability to secure attractive engagements in our investment banking business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. a failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may engage in strategic activities, which could include acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking anticipated benefits. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with international operations. one component of our strategy is to expand internationally. to date, we have opened offices in china, india, israel and the united kingdom. we plan to expand our operations in those locations and may expand beyond these countries. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, differing technology standards or customer requirements, political and economic risks and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operation and financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 28 table of contents our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, or our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities and changes in the shape and level of the yield curve. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by the asset/liability committee (alco), which is a management committee. alco reviews sensitivities of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis and decisions related to the management of interest rate exposure are made, as appropriate. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our investment securities and funding portfolios. in addition, our policies permit off-balance sheet derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the market value of portfolio equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet. we also use traditional gap analysis to provide a simple indicator of interest rate risk. gap analysis provides only a static view of interest rate sensitivity at a point in time, while the simulation model measures the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position at a minimum, on a quarterly basis. market value of portfolio equity and net interest income one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our market value of portfolio equity ( mvpe ). mvpe is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ). 90 table of contents the following table presents our mvpe and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2008 and 2007, related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. estimated mvpe estimated increase/ (decrease) in mvpe estimated nii estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii change in interest rates (basis points) amount percent amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2008: +200 $ 1,623,746 $ 119,253 7.9 % $ 467,955 $ 57,865 14.1 % +100 1,554,708 50,215 3.3 425,970 15,880 3.9 1,504,493 410,090 -100 1,437,606 (66,887 ) (4.4 ) 403,890 (6,200 ) (1.5 ) -200 1,457,086 (47,407 ) (3.2 ) 401,074 (9,016 ) (2.2 ) december 31, 2007: +200 $ 1,151,955 $ 33,654 3.0 % $ 461,965 $ 45,942 11.0 % +100 1,138,790 20,489 1.8 439,489 23,466 5.6 1,118,301 416,023 -100 1,081,469 (36,832 ) (3.3 ) 393,817 (22,206 ) (5.3 ) -200 1,045,298 (73,003 ) (6.5 ) 367,161 (48,862 ) (11.7 ) the estimated mvpe in the preceding table is based on a discounted cash flow analysis using market interest rates provided by independent broker/dealers and other publicly available sources that are deemed reliable. these estimates are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as and when we change our assumptions in response to relevant circumstances. these calculations do not reflect changes we may make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates. we expect to continue to manage our interest rate risk utilizing on and off-balance sheet strategies, as appropriate. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to basis risk, yield curve risk, and prepayment risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our base case mvpe at december 31, 2008 increased from december 31, 2007 by $386.2 million primarily due to growth in our loan and investment securities portfolios and lower short-term interest rates. mvpe sensitivity declined in simulated downward interest rate movements due to the historically low level of interest rates. our simulation model embeds floors in our interest rate change scenarios, which prevent model benchmark rates from resulting in negative rates. given the low level of interest rates these floors contributed to the lower sensitivity in the down 200 basis point scenario. mvpe increased in simulated upward interest rate movements primarily due to the seasoning of the mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligation investment portfolios, whose cash flows are stable and less sensitive to changes in interest rates due to their mature structures. conversely, our expected 12-month nii at december 31, 2008 decreased from december 31, 2007 by $5.9 million due to the decline in interest rates, the variable rate nature of a significant portion of our loan portfolio, and the increased cost of our deposits. nii sensitivity decreased in simulated downward interest rate movements and increased in up rate scenarios. the change in sensitivity is due to the factors mentioned above as well as the changes in our balance sheet mix, our deposit repricing assumptions, and the current low interest rate environment. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 91 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2008, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management report on internal control over financial reporting (item 9a(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2008 based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2008, and our report dated march 2, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california march 2, 2009 92 table of contentsrisk factors our business faces significant risks, including market and economic environment, credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. risks relating to market and economic environment the continuation or worsening of recent market and economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations and ability to access capital. overall deterioration in domestic or global economic conditions, especially in the technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine industry niches or overall financial capital markets may adversely affect our business, growth, results of operations and ability to access capital. a global, domestic or significant regional economic slowdown or recession, could harm us by adversely affecting our clients and 17 table of contents prospective clients access to capital to fund their businesses, their ability to sustain and grow their businesses, the level of funds they have available to maintain deposits, their demand for loans, their ability to repay loans and otherwise. the united states has been in a serious economic downturn, as have economies around the world. financial markets have been volatile, business and consumer spending has declined, and overall business activities have slowed, including a general slowdown in mergers and acquisitions ( m&amp;a ) and initial public offerings ( ipos ) of companies events upon which the venture capital and private equity community relies to exit their investments. overall venture capital financing activity has also slowed in recent periods. there have been limited signs of economic recovery recently, such as a modest increase in the number of ipos, yet economic conditions continue to be challenging. if current market and economic conditions persist, our clients will continue to be adversely impacted, as will our investment returns, valuations of companies, and overall levels of venture capital and private equity investments, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a worsening of these conditions could likely exacerbate the adverse effect on us. as a result of recent economic conditions, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. svb financial depends on access to equity and debt markets as one of its primary sources to raise capital. there has been some improvement to market conditions, particularly access to equity markets; however, if recent levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. recent and future legislation and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing the u.s. banking system or reviving the overall economy. recent and future legislative and regulatory initiatives to address current market and economic conditions, such as eesa or the arra, may not achieve their intended objectives, including stabilizing or improving the u.s. banking system or reviving the overall economy. eesa was enacted in october 2008 to restore confidence and stabilize the volatility in the u.s. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. treasury and banking regulators have implemented, and likely will continue to implement, various programs and legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the troubled assets relief program ( tarp ). there can be no assurance as to the actual impact that any of the recent, or future, legislative and regulatory initiatives will have on the financial markets and the overall economy. any failure of these initiatives to help stabilize or improve the financial markets and the economy, and a continuation or worsening of recent financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital or credit, and the trading price of our common stock. additional requirements under our regulatory framework intended to strengthen the u.s. financial system could adversely affect us. recent government efforts to strengthen the u.s. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, such as various executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions on cpp participants, and regulatory fees, such as fdic assessment increase and prepayment requirements, on financial institutions. moreover, there has been increasing legislative and other focus on the regulation of financial institutions, which may result in the imposition of additional legislative or regulatory requirements, such as changes to capital minimum guidelines, additional executive compensation restrictions or additional restrictions on non-banking activities, or perhaps, a possible comprehensive overhaul of the financial institutions regulatory system. current and future requirements may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. 18 table of contents credit risks if our clients fail to perform under their loans, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. as a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. in addition, the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party or a public offering. in recent periods, due to the overall weakening of the economic environment, venture capital financing activity has slowed, and ipos and m&amp;a activities have slowed significantly. despite there being signs of improvement in such activities recently, if economic conditions worsen or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down even further. venture capital firms may provide financing at lower levels, more selectively or on less favorable terms, which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. additionally, we may enter into accounts receivable financing arrangements with our company clients. the repayment of these arrangements is dependent on the financial condition, and payment ability, of third parties with whom our clients do business. such third parties may be unable to meet their financial obligations to our clients, especially in a weakened economic environment. in our portfolio of venture capital and private equity firm clients, many of our clients have capital call lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. we have been increasing our efforts to lend to corporate technology and large corporate clients, including some companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity, and have increased the average size of our loans over time. at december 31, 2009, our gross loan portfolio included a total of $957.6 million, or 20.9 percent, of individual loans greater than $20 million. increasing our larger loan commitments could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. 19 table of contents we lend to targeted high net-worth individual clients through our private client services ( pcs ) group. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. as of december 31, 2009, our total gross loans to these targeted individual clients in our pcs loan portfolio was over $350.0 million. in 2009, primarily due to the impact of economic conditions, we experienced a higher level of charge-offs since 2008 with respect to our pcs portfolio. we also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our svb wine group. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather or other natural conditions) and overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment). as of december 31, 2009, our total gross loans in our premium wine portfolio was $442.1 million. in 2009, charge-offs with respect to this portfolio also increased by $2.8 million compared to 2008. see loans under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations consolidated financial condition under item 7 of part ii of this report below. for all of these reasons, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and market perceptions of us. the borrowing needs of our clients may be volatile, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. at december 31, 2009, we had $5.3 billion in total unfunded credit commitments. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective venture capital/private equity firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our venture capital/private equity fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. 20 table of contents market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we are increasingly offering more interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, and a change over time in the mix of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in market interest rates, such as the federal funds rate, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. (while increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase, due to the current low level of interest rates this is not expected to be the case for the first 75 basis points of increases in the target federal funds rate in 2010 or later. despite the 75 basis point decrease in the target federal funds rates in december 2008, we did not lower the bank prime lending rate in a corresponding manner.) conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. decreases in market interest rates, especially during 2008 and 2009, have caused our interest rate spread to decline significantly, which has reduced our net income. sustained low levels of market interest rates will likely continue to put pressure on our results of operations. unexpected interest rate declines may also adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected, as well as unexpected, financial obligations and requirements. an inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, equity/debt offerings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a reduction in our credit ratings, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness or our overall reputation. 21 table of contents equity warrant asset, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we frequently obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in certain client companies. we also make investments through our svb capital family of funds in venture capital and private equity funds and direct investments in companies, which are required to be carried at fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from the disposition of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including investor demand for ipos, levels of m&amp;a activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell, and the perceived and actual performance and future value of portfolio companies. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be less than the then-current recorded fair market value. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on the number of warrants we obtain, and in future periods, we may not be able to continue to obtain such equity warrant assets to the same extent we have historically achieved. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. the current economic conditions reflect a slowdown in such transactions, however if the levels of such transactions were to increase, our total outstanding loans may decline. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. failure to raise additional funds from third-party investors for our funds managed by svb capital may require us to use capital to fund commitments to other funds, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation. from time to time, we form new investment funds through our funds management division, svb capital. these funds include funds that invest in other venture capital and private equity funds (which we refer to as funds of funds) and portfolio companies (which we refer to as direct equity funds). our managed funds are typically structured as limited partnerships, heavily funded by third party limited partners and ultimately managed by us through our svb capital division. svb financial typically will also make a significant capital commitment to each of these funds as a limited partner. 22 table of contents prior to forming a new fund of funds, svb financial has made and may make investment commitments intended for the new fund, in order to show potential investors the types of funds in which the new fund will invest. until these investments are transferred to the new fund, which typically will occur upon the acceptance of binding commitments from third-party limited partners (the closing ), these investments are obligations of svb financial. if we fail to attract sufficient capital from third-party investors to conduct the closing of a fund, we may be required to permanently allocate capital to these investments when we otherwise had intended them to be temporary obligations. if, under such circumstances, we decide to sell these investments or fail to meet our obligations, we may lose some or all of the capital that has already been deployed and may be subject to legal claims. any unexpected permanent allocation of capital toward these investments, loss of capital contributed to these investments or legal claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, as well as our reputation. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. the manner in which we structure our employee compensation could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to attract, recruit and retain key employees. in may 2006, in an effort to align our equity grant rate to that of other financial institutions similar to us, we committed to restrict the total number of shares of our common stock issued under stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, stock bonus awards and any other equity awards granted during a fiscal year as a percentage of the total number of shares outstanding on a prospective basis. in light of this restriction, we may in the future consider taking other actions to modify employee compensation structures, such as granting cash compensation or other cash-settled forms of equity compensation, which may result in an additional charge to our earnings. how we structure our equity compensation may also have an adverse effect on our ability to attract, recruit and retain key employees. our decision in may 2006 to reduce equity awards to be granted on a prospective basis, and any other similar changes limiting our equity awards that we may adopt in the future, could negatively impact our hiring and retention strategies. moreover, recent economic conditions have reduced our share price, causing existing employee options and equity awards to have exercise prices higher in some cases, meaningfully higher than our actual share price. these factors could adversely affect our ability to attract, recruit and retain certain key employees. 23 table of contents the occurrence of fraudulent activity or breaches of our information security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses to us or our clients, privacy breaches against our clients, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. in recent periods, there has been a rise in electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts as they typically contain higher account balances. information pertaining to us and our clients are maintained, and transactions are executed, on our internal networks and internet-based systems, such as our online banking system. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and to maintain our clients confidence. increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, affect our ability to grow our online services or other businesses, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security problems could inhibit the use or growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services, we have developed and purchased or licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, or damage to our reputation. for example, we are in the process of implementing a new universal banking system that will replace our current platform. or, we may outsource certain operational functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies, which if not performed properly, could also have an adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, 24 table of contents terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. there is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as india, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with gaap and reflect management judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the 25 table of contents accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from nasdaq. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve and the california department of financial institutions. federal and state laws and regulations govern, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future or affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes. in addition, increased regulatory requirements, whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we were to violate international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, nasdaq, the financial industry regulatory authority ( finra ) and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our 26 table of contents subsidiary, svb securities. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements or the need for us to raise additional capital, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the bank financial needs and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. svb financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. one of its primary sources of income is cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings, if any, and dividends, should svb financial elect to pay any. various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. strategic/reputation risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our business. our clients are concentrated by industry niches: technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage or mid-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to emerging stage to mid-stage companies, that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of ipo or m&amp;a activity of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments and general economic conditions in the technology, life science and venture capital/private equity industries. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. 27 table of contents because our business and strategy are largely based on this venture capital/private equity financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including adverse trends in investment or fundraising levels, may have a materially adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, many of which are larger than we are, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may engage in strategic activities, which could include acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking anticipated benefits. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the 28 table of contents value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with international operations. one component of our strategy is to expand internationally. to date, we have opened offices in china, india, israel and the united kingdom. we plan to expand our operations in those locations and may expand beyond these countries. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, cultural differences, political and economic risks and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, or our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads and changes in the shape and level of the yield curve. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by the asset/liability committee ( alco ), which is a management committee. alco reviews sensitivities of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our investment securities and funding portfolios. in addition, our policies permit off-balance sheet derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the market value of portfolio equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position at a minimum, on a quarterly basis. 95 table of contents market value of portfolio equity and net interest income one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our market value of portfolio equity ( mvpe ). mvpe is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ). the following table presents our mvpe and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2009 and 2008, related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. change in interest rates (basis points) estimated mvpe estimated increase/ (decrease) in mvpe estimated nii estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii amount percent amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2009: +200 $ 1,491,262 $ (37,645 ) (2.5 )% $ 515,333 $ 75,569 17.2 % +100 1,510,211 (18,696 ) (1.2 ) 470,398 30,634 7.0 1,528,907 439,764 -100 1,567,122 38,215 2.5 424,444 (15,320 ) (3.5 ) -200 1,626,056 97,149 6.4 406,626 (33,138 ) (7.5 ) december 31, 2008: +200 $ 1,623,746 $ 119,253 7.9 % $ 467,955 $ 57,865 14.1 % +100 1,554,708 50,215 3.3 425,970 15,880 3.9 1,504,493 410,090 -100 1,437,606 (66,887 ) (4.4 ) 403,890 (6,200 ) (1.5 ) -200 1,457,086 (47,407 ) (3.2 ) 401,074 (9,016 ) (2.2 ) the estimated mvpe in the preceding table is based on a discounted cash flow analysis using market interest rates provided by independent broker/dealers and other publicly available sources that we deem reliable. these estimates are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant circumstances. these calculations do not reflect changes we may make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates. we expect to continue to manage our interest rate risk utilizing on and off-balance sheet strategies, as appropriate. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk and basis risk which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our base case mvpe at december 31, 2009 increased from december 31, 2008 by $24.4 million primarily due to the overall growth in fixed income investment securities, which grew by $2.6 billion from december 31, 2008 to december 31, 2009, reflecting investment of excess liquidity resulting from our continued growth in deposits. mvpe declined in simulated upward interest rate movements due to our significant growth in fixed income investment securities, which reduced our asset value in the up rate move. mvpe increased in simulated downward interest rate movements due to the historically low level of interest rates and changes in the balance sheet mix. our simulation model embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios which prevent model benchmark rates from resulting in negative rates. in addition, the growth in fixed income investment securities increases the asset value in a declining rate environment. given the low level of interest rates and the growth of fixed income 96 table of contents investment securities, these floors and fixed rate assets contributed to the higher mvpe in the down 100 and 200 basis point scenarios. current modeling assumptions maintain the svb prime lending rate at its existing level until the national prime index has been adjusted upward by a minimum of 75 basis points (to 4.0%), however, these assumptions may change in future periods. our expected 12-month nii at december 31, 2009 also increased from december 31, 2008 by $29.7 million due primarily to our balance sheet growing by $2.8 billion. the growth is principally attributed to large increases in our noninterest-bearing deposit accounts, rate sensitive cash equivalents, and fixed income investment securities. nii sensitivity increased in both the simulated upward and downward interest rate movements due primarily to the large growth in the rate sensitive cash equivalents and noninterest-bearing deposits. other contributing factors include changes in balance sheet mix, changes in deposit repricing assumptions, a dramatic steepening of the yield curve (which causes our interest sensitive assets to reset sooner in the projected earnings forecast), and a higher projected forward rate curve. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 97 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management report on internal control over financial reporting (item 9a(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009 based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2009, and our report dated march 1, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california march 1, 2010 98 table of contentsrisk factors our business faces significant risks, including market and economic environment, credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the 18 table of contents following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could suffer. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party or a public offering. over the past few years, due to the overall weakening of the economic environment, venture capital financing activity, as well as mergers and acquisitions ( m&amp;a ) and initial public offerings ( ipos ) activities on which venture capital firms rely to exit investments to realize returns, slowed in a meaningful manner. while there has been some improvement in overall economic conditions since 2008, particularly during 2010, if economic conditions worsen or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down even further, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. venture capital firms may continue to provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. in our portfolios of corporate technology and other large corporate clients, some of our loans may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity. we have been increasing our efforts to lend to larger clients and have increased the average size of our loans over time. increasing our larger loan commitments could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. we may also enter into accounts receivable financing arrangements with our company clients. the repayment of these arrangements is dependent on the financial condition, and payment ability, of third parties with whom our clients do business. such third parties may be unable to meet their financial obligations to our clients, especially in a weakened economic environment. in our portfolio of venture capital and private equity firm clients, many of our clients have capital call lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. we also lend to targeted high net-worth individual clients through our private client services ( pcs ) group. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. we also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our svb wine group. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather or other natural conditions) and overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment). see loans under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations consolidated financial condition under item 7 of part ii of this report. 19 table of contents based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our credit ratings and market perceptions of us. our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be volatile, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective venture capital/private equity firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our venture capital/private equity fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. 20 table of contents market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we are increasingly offering more interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, regulatory requirements (such as the repeal of the interest payment restrictions under regulation q), and a change over time in the mix of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in market interest rates, such as the federal funds rate, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. sustained low levels of market interest rates could continue to place downward pressure on our net income levels. unexpected or further interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected, as well as unexpected, financial obligations and requirements. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary, and periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. client deposits are the primary source of liquidity for the bank. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity supplements our liquidity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and, finally, through unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the fed funds market. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any failure to manage our liquidity effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our 21 table of contents access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness and business, or our overall reputation. equity warrant asset, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science industries. we also make investments through our svb capital family of funds primarily in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from the disposition of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including investor demand for ipos, levels of m&amp;a activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell, and the perceived and actual performance and future value of portfolio companies. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be less than the then-current recorded fair market value. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on the number of warrants we obtain, and in future periods, we may not be able to continue to obtain such equity warrant assets to the same extent we have historically achieved. public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 table of contents operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand into new markets internationally, we will need to hire local personnel within those new markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of available equity for such awards is subject to stockholder approval. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse affect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity or breaches of our information security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses to us or our clients, privacy breaches against our clients, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. in recent periods, there has been a rise in electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity in recent periods. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on our internal networks and internet-based systems, such as our online banking system. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and to maintain our clients confidence. increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, affect our ability to grow our online services or other businesses, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security problems could inhibit the use or growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. our ability to provide financial services over the internet would be severely impeded if clients became unwilling to transmit confidential information online. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 table of contents we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services, we have developed and purchased or licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions, or damage to our reputation. for example, we are in the process of implementing a new universal banking system that will replace our current platform. we may also outsource certain operational functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies. if we do not implement our systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. there is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as india and china, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. 24 table of contents we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that my be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from nasdaq. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. 25 table of contents legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve and the california department of financial institutions, as well as the international regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage and may affect our ability to expand our business over time. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future or affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes. moreover, recent government efforts to strengthen the u.s. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, including the adoption of the dodd-frank act. these laws and regulations will impose more regulatory requirements on us and may also increase our costs. for example, the dodd-frank act repeals the interest payment restrictions on demand deposit accounts under regulation q, which could result in a material increase in our deposit costs. the dodd-frank act also restricts banks investments in, and sponsorship of, private equity and hedge funds, which could, over time, require us to make changes to the way we sponsor and invest in funds. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see generally business supervision and regulation under item 1 of part i of this report. if we were to violate international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, nasdaq, finra, and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our subsidiary, svb securities. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the bank financial needs and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. svb financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings, if any, and dividends, should svb financial elect to pay any. various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. 26 table of contents strategic/reputation risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our business while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated by these general industry niches: technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage or mid-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to our concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to emerging stage to mid-stage companies, that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of ipo or m&amp;a activity of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science and venture capital/private equity industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. because our business and strategy are largely based on this venture capital/private equity financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including unfavorable economic conditions and adverse trends in investment or fundraising levels, may have a materially adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, many of which are larger than we are, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, 27 table of contents competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking anticipated benefits. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with international operations. one component of our strategy is to expand internationally. to date, we have opened offices in china, india, israel and the united kingdom. we plan to expand our operations in those locations. to date, we have applied for banking licenses in india and the united kingdom and are forming a joint venture to pursue banking opportunities in china. we may expand our business beyond these countries. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations and risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, cultural differences, political and economic risks and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees may 28 table of contents fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads and changes in the shape and level of the yield curve. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by our asset/liability committee ( alco ). alco reviews sensitivities of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our investment securities and funding portfolios. in addition, our policies permit off-balance sheet derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the market value of portfolio equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position at a minimum, on a quarterly basis. market value of portfolio equity and net interest income one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our market value of portfolio equity ( mvpe ). mvpe is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet as of the quarter-end reporting date. the market interest rate changes that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following: (1) national prime and svb prime rates (impacts the majority of our variable rate loans); (2) libor (impacts our variable rate available-for-sale 97 table of contents securities, our 5.70% senior notes and 6.05% subordinated notes, and a portion of our variable rate loans); and (3) fed funds target rate (impacts cash and cash equivalents). additionally, deposit pricing generally follows overall changes in short-term interest rates. the following table presents our mvpe and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points ( bps ), respectively. estimated mvpe estimated increase/ (decrease) in mvpe estimated nii estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii change in interest rates (basis points) amount percent amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2010: +200 $ 1,751,856 $ 72,018 4.3 % $ 613,871 $ 112,795 22.5 % +100 1,688,368 8,530 0.5 544,870 43,794 8.7 - 1,679,838 501,076 -100 1,858,246 178,408 10.6 484,575 (16,501 ) (3.3 ) -200 1,956,178 276,340 16.5 475,716 (25,360 ) (5.1 ) december 31, 2009: +200 $ 1,491,262 $ (37,645 ) (2.5 )% $ 515,333 $ 75,569 17.2 % +100 1,510,211 (18,696 ) (1.2 ) 470,398 30,634 7.0 - 1,528,907 439,764 -100 1,567,122 38,215 2.5 424,444 (15,320 ) (3.5 ) -200 1,626,056 97,149 6.4 406,626 (33,138 ) (7.5 ) the estimated mvpe in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis (for non option based products) and a multi-path lattice based valuation (for option embedded products). both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates sources that we deem reliable. these estimates are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes that we anticipate or may make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk and basis risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our base case mvpe at december 31, 2010 increased from december 31, 2009 by $150.9 million primarily due to the overall growth in the balance sheet as our loans and available-for-sale securities grew by $973.6 million and $4.0 billion, respectively. these increases were partially offset by the $4.0 billion growth in our deposits, a $352.6 million increase in long-term debt and a $436.4 million decrease in cash and cash equivalents. mvpe rose in the simulated upward interest rate movement due to the combined effect of growth in variable rate available-for-sale securities and noninterest-bearing deposits. additionally, with the historically low level of interest rates, our deposit rates are also at or near their absolute floors thus decreasing the effect of the downward rate shocks. our expected 12-month nii at december 31, 2010 increased from december 31, 2009 by $61.3 million primarily due to growth in loans and available-for-sale securities, as well as the effect of investing a portion of 98 table of contents our cash balances held at the federal reserve bank (earning 25 bps) into interest-earning available-for-sale securities. the growth in total assets was funded primarily by growth in noninterest-bearing deposits. this growth was partially offset by higher interest expense due to the issuance of our $350 million in 5.375% senior notes. nii sensitivity increased in the simulated upward interest rate movements due primarily to the large growth in loans, variable rate available-for-sale securities, and noninterest-bearing deposits. in the simulated downward interest rate movements, the nii sensitivity decreased as loan yields are at or near their floors. furthermore, our variable rate securities are indexed off libor; hence, interest loss was limited in the downward rate scenarios as libor is at or near its floor. in addition to these changes, other general contributing factors include changes in balance sheet mix, changes in deposit repricing assumptions, and a lower projected forward rate curve. the simulation model used for above analysis embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios which prevent model benchmark rates from resulting in negative rates. current modeling assumptions maintain the svb prime lending rate at its existing level (currently at 4.0%) until the national prime index has been adjusted upward by a minimum of 75 bps (to 4.0%), as we did not lower the bank prime lending rate despite the 75 bps decrease in the target federal funds rates in december 2008. these assumptions may change in future periods based on management discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 99 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management report on internal control over financial reporting (item 9a(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission . we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2010, and our report dated february 25, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california february 25, 2011 100 table of contentsrisk factors our business faces significant risks, including credit, market/liquidity, operational, legal/regulatory and strategic/reputation risks. the factors described below may not be the only risks we face and are not intended to serve as a comprehensive listing or be applicable only to the category of risk under which they are disclosed. the risks described below are generally applicable to more than one of the following categories of risks. additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. credit risks because of the credit profile of our loan portfolio, our levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs can be volatile. we may need to make material provisions for loan losses in any period, which could reduce net income and/or increase net losses in that period. our loan portfolio has a credit profile different from that of most other banking companies. the credit profile of our clients varies across our loan portfolio, based on the nature of the lending we do for different market segments. in our portfolios for emerging, early-stage and mid-stage companies, many of our loans are made to companies with modest or negative cash flows and no established record of profitable operations. repayment of these loans may be dependent upon receipt by borrowers of additional equity financing from venture capitalists or others, or in some cases, a successful sale to a third party, public offering or other form of liquidity event. over the past few years, due to the overall weakening of the economic environment, venture capital financing activity, as well as mergers and acquisitions ( m&amp;a ) and initial public offerings ( ipos ) activities on which venture capital firms rely to exit investments to realize returns, slowed in a meaningful manner. while there has been some improvement in overall economic conditions since 2008, particularly during 2010 and 2011, if economic conditions worsen or do not continue to improve, such activities may slow down even further, which may impact the financial health of our client companies. venture capital firms may continue to provide financing in a more selective manner, at lower levels, and/or on less favorable terms, any of which may have an adverse effect on our borrowers that are otherwise dependent on such financing to repay their loans to us. moreover, collateral for many of our loans often includes intellectual property, which is difficult to value and may not be readily salable in the case of default. because of the intense competition and rapid technological change that characterizes the companies in the technology and life science industry sectors, a borrower financial position can deteriorate rapidly. in our portfolios of corporate technology and other large corporate clients, some of our loans may be made to companies with greater levels of debt relative to their equity. we have been increasing our efforts to lend to larger clients, as well as to make larger loans. these larger loans include loans equal to or greater than $20 million to a single client, which has over time represented an increasingly larger proportion of our total loan portfolio. moreover, we have increased the average size of our overall loans. increasing our loan commitments, especially larger loans, could increase the impact on us of any single borrower default. 17 table of contents we may also enter into financing arrangements with our clients, the repayment of which may be dependent on third parties financial condition or ability to meet their payment obligations. for example, we enter into factoring arrangements which are secured by our clients accounts receivable from third parties with whom they do business. or, we make loans secured by letters of credit issued by other third party banks, or we enter into letters of credit discounting arrangements, the repayment of which may be dependent on the reimbursement by third party banks. these third parties may not meet their financial obligations to our clients or to us, which could have an adverse impact on us. in our portfolio of venture capital and private equity firm clients, many of our clients have lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by these firms. these limited partner investors may face liquidity issues or have difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during unstable economic times, which may lead to our clients inability to meet their repayment obligations to us. we also lend primarily to venture capital/private equity professionals through our private bank. these individual clients may face difficulties meeting their financial commitments, especially during a challenging economic environment, and may be unable to repay their loans. we also lend to premium wineries and vineyards through our svb wine group. repayment of loans made to these clients may be dependent on overall grape supply (which may be adversely affected by poor weather or other natural conditions) and overall wine demand and sales, or other sources of financing or income (which may be adversely affected by a challenging economic environment). see loans under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations consolidated financial condition under item 7 of part ii of this report. based on the credit profile of our overall loan portfolio, our level of nonperforming loans, loan charge-offs and allowance for loan losses can be volatile and can vary materially from period to period. increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may require us to increase our provision for loan losses in any period, which could reduce our net income or cause net losses in that period. additionally, such increases in our level of nonperforming loans or loan charge-offs may also have an adverse effect on our capital ratios, credit ratings and market perceptions of us. our allowance for loan losses is determined based upon both objective and subjective factors, and may not be adequate to absorb loan losses. as a lender, we face the risk that our client borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. if borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we reserve for such losses by establishing an allowance for loan losses, the increase of which results in a charge to our earnings as a provision for loan losses. we have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. while this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are also dependent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if such losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent or out of pattern with regards to our credit quality assessments. there can be no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the borrowing needs of our clients may be unpredictable, especially during a challenging economic environment. we may not be able to meet our unfunded credit commitments, or adequately reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. a commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. the actual borrowing needs of our clients under 18 table of contents these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. a significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is reflected off our balance sheet. actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expected funding requirements, especially during a challenging economic environment when our client companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from more discerning and selective venture capital/private equity firms. in addition, limited partner investors of our venture capital/private equity fund clients may fail to meet their underlying investment commitments due to liquidity or other financing issues, which may impact our clients borrowing needs. any failure to meet our unfunded credit commitments in accordance with the actual borrowing needs of our clients may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. additionally, we establish a reserve for losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. the level of the reserve for unfunded credit commitments is determined by following a methodology similar to that used to establish our allowance for loan losses in our funded loan portfolio. the reserve is based on credit commitments outstanding, credit quality of the loan commitments, and management estimates and judgment, and is susceptible to significant changes. there can be no assurance that our reserve for unfunded credit commitments will be adequate to provide for actual losses associated with our unfunded credit commitments. an increase in the reserve for unfunded credit commitments in any period may result in a charge to our earnings, which could reduce our net income or increase net losses in that period. market/liquidity risks our current level of interest rate spread may decline in the future. any material reduction in our interest rate spread, or a sustained period of low market interest rates, could have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. a major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. we fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. while we are increasingly offering more interest-bearing deposit products, a majority of our deposit balances are from our noninterest bearing products. our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our clients and securities held in our investment portfolio. overall, the interest rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities and receive on our interest-earning assets, and our level of interest rate spread, could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in market interest rates, competition, regulatory requirements (such as the repeal of the interest payment restrictions under regulation q), and a change over time in the mix of the types of loans, investment securities, deposits and other liabilities on our balance sheet. changes in market interest rates, such as the federal funds rate, generally impact our interest rate spread. while changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in the revenues earned from our interest-earning assets and the expenses associated with our interest-bearing liabilities, increases in market interest rates will nevertheless likely cause our interest rate spread to increase. conversely, if interest rates decline, our interest rate spread will likely decline. sustained low levels of market interest rates could continue to place downward pressure on our net income levels. unexpected or further interest rate changes may adversely affect our business forecasts and expectations. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, global economic disruptions, unemployment and the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. any material reduction in our interest rate spread or the continuation of sustained low levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 table of contents liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. liquidity is essential to our business, both at the svb financial and the bank level. we require sufficient liquidity to meet our expected, as well as unexpected, financial obligations and requirements. primary liquidity resources for svb financial include dividends from the bank, its main operating subsidiary, and periodic capital market transactions offering debt and equity instruments in the public and private markets. client deposits are the primary source of liquidity for the bank. when needed, wholesale borrowing capacity supplements our liquidity in the form of short- and long-term borrowings secured by our portfolio of high quality investment securities, long-term capital market debt issuances and, finally, through unsecured overnight funding channels available to us in the fed funds market. an inability to maintain or raise funds through these sources could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on svb financial and the bank liquidity. our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. any failure to manage our liquidity effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. additionally, our credit ratings are important to our liquidity and our business. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, and limit our access to the capital markets. moreover, a reduction in our credit ratings could increase the interest rates we pay on deposits, or adversely affect perceptions about our creditworthiness and business, or our overall reputation. equity warrant assets, venture capital and private equity funds and direct equity investment portfolio gains or losses depend upon the performance of the portfolio investments and the general condition of the public equity and m&amp;a markets, which are uncertain and may vary materially by period. in connection with negotiated credit facilities and certain other services, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock in private, venture-backed companies in the technology and life science industries. we also make investments through svb financial or our svb capital family of funds primarily in venture capital funds and direct investments in companies, many of which are required to be carried at fair value. the fair value of these warrants and investments are reflected in our financial statements and are adjusted on a quarterly basis. fair value changes are generally recorded as unrealized gains or losses through consolidated net income. the timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including the performance of the underlying companies, fluctuations in the market prices of the preferred or common stock of the underlying companies, the timing of our receipt of relevant financial information, general volatility and interest rate market factors, and legal and contractual restrictions. the timing and amount of our realization of actual net proceeds, if any, from the disposition of these financial instruments depend upon factors beyond our control, including investor demand for ipos, levels of m&amp;a activity, legal and contractual restrictions on our ability to sell, and the perceived and actual performance and future value of portfolio companies. because of the inherent variability of these financial instruments and the markets in which they are bought and sold, the fair market value of these financial instruments might increase or decrease materially, and the net proceeds realized upon disposition might be less than the then-current recorded fair market value. we cannot predict future realized or unrealized gains or losses, and any such gains or losses are likely to vary materially from period to period. additionally, the value of our equity warrant asset portfolio depends on the underlying value of the issuing companies, which may also vary materially from period to period. 20 table of contents public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions involving our clients or a slowdown in venture capital investment levels may reduce the borrowing needs of our clients, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. while an active market for public equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions generally has positive implications for our business, one negative consequence is that our clients may pay off or reduce their loans with us if they complete a public equity offering, are acquired by or merge with another entity or otherwise receive a significant equity investment. moreover, our capital call lines of credit are typically utilized by our venture capital fund clients to make investments prior to receipt of capital called from their respective limited partners. a slowdown in overall venture capital investment levels may reduce the need for our clients to borrow from our capital call lines of credit. any significant reduction in the outstanding amounts of our loans or under our lines of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients, which may result in payment obligations to us or to our clients due to products arranged by us. many of these transactions expose us to credit and market risk that may cause our counterparty or client to default. in addition, we are exposed to market risk when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. operational risks if we fail to retain our key employees or recruit new employees, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on key personnel, including a substantial number of employees who have technical expertise in their subject matter area and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. in addition, as we expand into new markets internationally, we will need to hire local personnel within those new markets. if we were to have less success in recruiting and retaining these employees than our competitors, for reasons including domestic or foreign regulatory restrictions on compensation practices or the availability of more attractive opportunities elsewhere, our growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. moreover, equity awards are an important component of our compensation program, especially for our executive officers and other members of senior management. the extent of available equity for such awards is subject to stockholder approval. if we do not have sufficient shares to grant to existing or new employees, there could be an adverse affect on our recruiting and retention efforts, which could impact our growth and results of operations. the occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches of our information security or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses to us or our clients, misuse of our information or our client information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our clients, litigation, or damage to our reputation. such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, social engineering and other 21 table of contents dishonest acts. information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our clients, and malware or other cyber attacks. in recent periods, there has been a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods. information pertaining to us and our clients is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our clients and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or reporting systems. the secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our clients against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients confidence. increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our clients to access our systems. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber attacks and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could result in losses to us or our clients, result in a loss of business and/or clients, cause us to incur additional expenses, disrupt our business, affect our ability to grow our online services or other businesses, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. more generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of the internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions, or cause damage to our reputation. as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with the ability of our information technology systems and our people and processes to support our operations and future growth effectively. in order to serve our target clients effectively, we have developed a comprehensive array of banking and other products and services. in order to support these products and services, we have developed and purchased or licensed information technology and other systems and processes. as our business continues to grow, we will continue to invest in and enhance these systems, and our people and processes. these investments and enhancements may affect our future profitability and overall effectiveness. from time to time, we may change, consolidate, replace, add or upgrade existing systems or processes, which if not implemented properly to allow for an effective transition, may have an adverse effect on our operations, including business interruptions which may result in inefficiencies, revenue losses, client losses, exposure to fraudulent activities, regulatory enforcement actions, or damage to our reputation. for example, we are in the process of implementing a new universal banking system that will replace our current platform, as well as other systems to support specific business units, including our international operations. we may also outsource certain operational functions to consultants or other third parties to enhance our overall efficiencies. if we do not implement our systems effectively or if our outsourcing business partners do not perform their functions properly, there could be an adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively maintain or improve our systems and processes, or utilize outsourced talent, to meet our business needs efficiently. any failure of such could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations, future growth and reputation. business disruptions and interruptions due to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations can be subject to natural disasters and other external events beyond our control, such as earthquakes, fires, severe weather, public health issues, power failures, telecommunication loss, major accidents, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and other natural and man-made events. our corporate headquarters 22 table of contents and a portion of our critical business offices are located in california near major earthquake faults. such events of disaster, whether natural or attributable to human beings, could cause severe destruction, disruption or interruption to our operations or property. financial institutions, such as us, generally must resume operations promptly following any interruption. if we were to suffer a disruption or interruption and were not able to resume normal operations within a period consistent with industry standards, our business could suffer serious harm. in addition, depending on the nature and duration of the disruption or interruption, we might be vulnerable to fraud, additional expense or other losses, or to a loss of business and/or clients. we have implemented a business continuity management program and we continue to enhance it on an ongoing basis. there is no assurance that our business continuity management program can adequately mitigate the risks of such business disruptions and interruptions. additionally, natural disasters and external events could affect the business and operations of our clients, which could impair their ability to pay their loans or fees when due, impair the value of collateral securing their loans, cause our clients to reduce their deposits with us, or otherwise adversely affect their business dealings with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face reputation and business risks due to our interactions with business partners, service providers and other third parties. we rely on third parties, both in the united states and internationally in countries such as india, china, israel, and the united kingdom, in a variety of ways, including to provide key components of our business infrastructure or to further our business objectives. these third parties may provide services to us and our clients or serve as partners in business activities. we rely on these third parties to fulfill their obligations to us, to accurately inform us of relevant information and to conduct their activities professionally and in a manner that reflects positively on us. any failure of our business partners, service providers or other third parties to meet their commitments to us or to perform in accordance with our expectations could result in operational issues, increased expenditures, damage to our reputation or loss of clients, which could harm our business and operations, financial performance, strategic growth or reputation. we depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. we also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. for example, under our accounts receivable financing arrangements, we rely on information, such as invoices, contracts and other supporting documentation, provided by our clients and their account debtors to determine the amount of credit to extend. similarly, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers representations that their financial statements conform to u.s. gaap and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. we also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information. our accounting policies and methods are key to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are uncertain. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with u.s. gaap and reflect management judgment of the 23 table of contents most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. in some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) or the sec may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. also, our global initiatives, as well as continuing trends towards the convergence of international accounting standards, such as rules that may be adopted under the international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), may result in our company being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. in addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our revising or restating prior period financial statements. if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. we may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from nasdaq stock market. this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. legal/regulatory risks we are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, or result in higher costs to us. svb financial group, including the bank, is extensively regulated under federal and state laws and regulations governing financial institutions, including those imposed by the fdic, the federal reserve, the newly-established consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ), and the california department of financial institutions, as well as the international regulatory authorities that govern our global activities. federal and state laws and regulations govern, limit or otherwise affect the activities in which we may engage, may affect our ability to expand our business over time and may result in an increase in our compliance costs, including higher fdic insurance premiums. in addition, a change in the applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy could have a material effect on our business, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. these laws and regulations also require financial institutions, including svb financial and the bank, to maintain certain minimum levels of capital, which may require us to raise additional capital in the future or affect our ability to use our capital resources for other business purposes. moreover, recent government efforts to strengthen the u.s. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, including the adoption of the dodd-frank act. these laws and regulations will impose more regulatory requirements on us, including new capital requirements, and may also increase our costs. for example, the dodd-frank act repealed the interest payment restrictions on demand deposit accounts under regulation q, which could result in a material increase in our deposit costs. in addition, the dodd-frank act established the 24 table of contents cfpb, which will promulgate rules and regulations that will effect how we operate our business and the environment in which we operate. the dodd-frank act also restricts banks investments in, and sponsorship of, private equity and hedge funds, which could, over time, require us to make changes to the way we sponsor and invest in funds. furthermore, the bank for international settlement basel committee on banking supervision recently adopted new capital, leverage and liquidity guidelines under the basel accord which, when implemented in the united states, may have the effect of raising our capital requirements beyond those required by current law and the dodd-frank act. increased regulatory requirements (and the associated compliance costs), whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see generally business supervision and regulation under item 1 of part i of this report. if we were to violate international, federal or state laws or regulations governing financial institutions, we could be subject to disciplinary action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. international, federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory or enforcement action with respect to financial institutions. other regulatory bodies, including the sec, the nasdaq stock market, finra, and state securities regulators, regulate broker-dealers, including our subsidiary, svb securities. if svb financial group were to violate, even if unintentionally or inadvertently, the laws governing public companies, financial institutions and broker-dealers, the regulatory authorities could take various actions against us, depending on the severity of the violation, such as imposing restrictions on how we conduct our business, revoking necessary licenses or authorizations, imposing censures, civil money penalties or fines, issuing cease and desist or other supervisory orders, and suspending or expelling from the securities business a firm, its officers or employees. supervisory actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, higher levels of liquidity available to meet the bank financial needs and limitations on the activities of svb financial group. these remedies and supervisory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. svb financial relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its cash revenues. svb financial is a holding company and is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its cash revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily the bank. these dividends are a principal source of funds to pay operating costs, borrowings (if any), and dividends, should svb financial elect to pay any, as well as share repurchases. various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to svb financial. also, svb financial right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. strategic/reputation risks concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our business while there may exist a great deal of diversity within each industry, our clients are concentrated by these general industry niches: technology, life science, venture capital/private equity and premium wine. many of our client companies are concentrated by certain stages within their life cycles, such as early-stage or mid-stage, and many of these companies are venture capital-backed. our loan concentrations are derived from our borrowers engaging in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. any adverse effect on any of our areas of concentration could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. due to our 25 table of contents concentrations, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. decreases in the amount of equity capital available to our portfolio companies could adversely affect our business, growth and profitability. our core strategy is focused on providing banking products and services to companies, including in particular to emerging stage to mid-stage companies, that receive financial support from sophisticated investors, including venture capital or private equity firms, angels, and corporate investors. we derive a meaningful share of our deposits from these companies and provide them with loans as well as other banking products and services. in some cases, our lending credit decision is based on our analysis of the likelihood that our venture capital or angel-backed client will receive additional rounds of equity capital from investors. if the amount of capital available to such companies decreases, it is likely that the number of new clients and investor financial support to our existing borrowers could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and growth prospects. among the factors that have affected and could in the future affect the amount of capital available to our portfolio companies are the receptivity of the capital markets, the prevalence of ipo or m&amp;a activity of companies within our technology and life science industry sectors, the availability and return on alternative investments, economic conditions in the technology, life science and venture capital/private equity industries, and overall general economic conditions. reduced capital markets valuations could reduce the amount of capital available to our client companies, including companies within our technology and life science industry sectors. because our business and strategy are largely based on this venture capital/private equity financing framework focused on our particular client niches, any material changes in the framework, including unfavorable economic conditions and adverse trends in investment or fundraising levels, may have a materially adverse effect on our business, strategy and overall profitability. we face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. other banks and specialty and diversified financial services companies and debt funds, some of which are larger than we are, offer lending, leasing, other financial products and advisory services to our client base. in addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds. in some cases, our competitors focus their marketing on our industry sectors and seek to increase their lending and other financial relationships with technology companies or special industries such as wineries. in other cases, our competitors may offer a broader range of financial products to our clients. when new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and credit terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share or ability to exploit new market opportunities. our pricing and credit terms could deteriorate if we act to meet these competitive challenges, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth. similarly, competitive pressures could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition and future growth of our non-banking services, including our access to capital and attractive investment opportunities for our funds business. our ability to maintain or increase our market share depends on our ability to meet the needs of existing and future clients. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and to meet the needs of existing and potential future clients. a failure to achieve market acceptance for any new products we introduce, a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, or the costs 26 table of contents associated with developing, introducing and providing new products and services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, growth prospects and financial condition. we face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings. we are engaged, and may in the future engage, in strategic activities domestically or internationally, including acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, investments or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. in order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. if obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. these factors likely will vary based on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating an acquired company or a new growth initiative into our business, operations, services, products, personnel and systems, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, hiring or retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting management expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking anticipated benefits. our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. in addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. if we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. in addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with international operations. one important component of our strategy is to expand internationally. to date, we have opened offices in china, india, israel and the united kingdom. we plan to expand our operations in those locations. to date, we have applied for a banking license in the united kingdom and have begun to form a joint venture bank in china. we may expand our business beyond these countries. our efforts to expand our business internationally carry with them certain risks, including risks arising from the uncertainty regarding our ability to generate revenues from foreign operations, risks associated with leveraging and doing business with local business partners and other general operational risks. in addition, there are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others, legal, regulatory and tax requirements and restrictions, uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, incremental requirement of management attention and resources, differing technology standards or customer requirements, cultural differences, political and economic risks, and financial risks, including currency and payment risks. these risks could adversely affect the success of our international operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we face risks that our employees may fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing our international operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. anti-bribery act and foreign laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our business reputation is important and any damage to it could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reputation is very important to sustain our business, as we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and stockholders, the venture capital and private equity communities, and the industries that we serve. any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or 27 table of contents enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with sec and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, our conduct of our business or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk management market risk is defined as the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market value of financial instruments due to changes in market interest rates. interest rate risk is our primary market risk and can result from timing and volume differences in the repricing of our rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, widening or tightening of credit spreads, changes in the general level of market interest rates and changes in the shape and level of the benchmark libor/swap yield curve. other market risks include foreign currency exchange risk and equity price risk. these risks are not considered significant and no separate quantitative information concerning them is presented herein. interest rate risk is managed by our alco. alco reviews the market valuation and 12-month forward looking earnings sensitivity of assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates, structural changes in investment and funding portfolios, loan and deposit activity and current market conditions. adherence to relevant policies, which are approved by the finance committee of our board of directors, is monitored on an ongoing basis. management of interest rate risk is carried out primarily through strategies involving our available-for-sale securities, available funding channels and capital market activities. in addition, our policies permit the use of off-balance sheet derivative instruments to assist in managing interest rate risk. we utilize a simulation model to perform sensitivity analysis on the market value of portfolio equity and net interest income under a variety of interest rate scenarios, balance sheet forecasts and proposed strategies. the simulation model provides a dynamic assessment of interest rate sensitivity embedded in our balance sheet which measures the estimated variability in forecasted results relating to changes in market interest rates over time. we review our interest rate risk position on a quarterly basis at a minimum. model simulation and sensitivity analysis one application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement of the impact of market interest rate changes on our market value of portfolio equity ( mvpe ). mvpe is defined as the market value of assets, less the market value of liabilities, adjusted for any off-balance sheet items. a second application of the simulation model measures the impact of market interest rate changes on our net interest income ( nii ) assuming a static balance sheet as of the period-end reporting date. the market interest rate changes that affect us are principally short-term interest rates and include the following: (1) national prime and svb prime rates (impacts the majority of our variable rate loans); (2) libor (impacts our variable rate available-for-sale securities, our 5.70% senior notes and 6.05% subordinated notes, and a portion of our variable rate loans); and (3) fed funds target rate (impacts cash and cash equivalents). additionally, deposit pricing generally follows overall changes in short-term interest rates. 90 table of contents the following table presents our mvpe and nii sensitivity exposure at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, related to an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points ( bps ). estimated mvpe estimated increase/ (decrease) in mvpe estimated nii estimated increase/ (decrease) in nii change in interest rates (basis points) amount percent amount percent (dollars in thousands) december 31, 2011: +200 $ 2,137,370 $ (195,532 ) (8.4 )% $ 737,863 $ 108,840 17.3 % +100 2,141,664 (191,238 ) (8.2 ) 672,941 43,918 7.0 - 2,332,902 629,023 -100 2,580,856 247,954 10.6 592,639 (36,384 ) (5.8 ) -200 2,587,646 254,744 10.9 583,671 (45,352 ) (7.2 ) december 31, 2010: +200 $ 1,751,856 $ 72,018 4.3 % $ 613,871 $ 112,795 22.5 % +100 1,688,368 8,530 0.5 544,870 43,794 8.7 - 1,679,838 501,076 -100 1,858,246 178,408 10.6 484,575 (16,501 ) (3.3 ) -200 1,956,178 276,340 16.5 475,716 (25,360 ) (5.1 ) market value of portfolio equity the estimated mvpe in the preceding table is based on a combination of valuation methodologies including a discounted cash flow analysis (for non-option based products) and a multi-path lattice based valuation (for option embedded products). both methodologies use publicly available market interest rates. the model simulations and calculations are highly assumption-dependent and will change regularly as our asset/liability structure changes, as interest rate environments evolve, and as we change our assumptions in response to relevant circumstances. these calculations do not reflect the changes that we anticipate or may make to reduce our mvpe exposure in response to a change in market interest rates as a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy. as with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain limitations are inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. we are exposed to yield curve risk, prepayment risk and basis risk, which cannot be fully modeled and expressed using the above methodology. accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as a precise indicator of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates. additionally, the resulting mvpe and nii estimates are not intended to represent, and should not be construed to represent the underlying value. our base case mvpe at december 31, 2011 increased from december 31, 2010 by $653.1 million primarily due to the overall growth in the balance sheet as our available-for-sale securities and loans grew by $2.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, while we reduced our cash and cash equivalents by $2.0 billion. additionally, the maturity of $250.0 million of our 3.875% convertible notes and our repurchase of $312.6 million of 5.70% senior notes and 6.05% subordinated notes contributed to the increase in mvpe. the growth in our asset base was mostly offset by a $2.4 billion increase in our deposit balances. mvpe sensitivity increased in the simulated upward interest rate movement primarily due to additional investments in fixed-rate available-for-sale securities throughout the year. the increase was partially offset by the growth in noninterest-bearing deposits. in the simulated downward interest rate movements, mvpe sensitivity decreased due to a combination of growth in fixed-rate available-for-sale securities and deposit rates being at or near their absolute floors thus muting the effects of the downward interest rate shocks. 91 table of contents 12-month net interest income simulation our expected 12-month nii at december 31, 2011 increased from december 31, 2010 by $127.9 million primarily due to overall growth in the loan portfolio and the investment of excess cash into higher yielding available-for-sale securities. additionally, the maturity of $250.0 million of our 3.875% convertible notes and our repurchase of $312.6 million of our 5.70% senior notes and 6.05% subordinated notes contributed to the improvement. the growth in total assets was funded primarily by growth in deposits. nii sensitivity in the simulated upward interest rate movements decreased due primarily to the increase in fixed-rate available-for-sale securities and interest-bearing deposits. in the simulated downward interest rate movements, the nii sensitivity increased slightly due to assumed faster prepayments of mortgage securities and an assumed increase in callable u.s. agency debentures being retired prior to their contractual maturities. the simulation model used for above analysis embeds floors in our interest rate scenarios, which prevents model benchmark rates from moving below 0.0%. current modeling assumptions maintain svb prime lending rate at its existing level (currently at 4.0%) until the national prime index has been adjusted upward by a minimum of 75 bps (to 4.0%), as we did not lower the bank prime lending rate despite the 75 bps decrease in the target federal funds rates in december 2008. while we do have a portion of the loans in the portfolio indexed off of the national prime rate, the majority of our floating rate loans are indexed off of the svb prime rate. these assumptions may change in future periods based on management discretion. actual changes in our deposit pricing strategies may differ from our current model assumptions and may have an impact on our overall sensitivity. 92 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm the board of directors and stockholders svb financial group: we have audited svb financial group and subsidiaries (the company ) internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2011, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) . the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management report on internal control over financial reporting (item 9a.(b)). our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2011, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2011, and our report dated february 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. /s/ kpmg llp san francisco, california february 28, 2012 93 table of contents