risk factors 13 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of 13 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to our business if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement we entered into in september 2007, we may be subject to exclusion from federal healthcare programs. as previously reported, in september 2007 we settled an investigation conducted by the united states attorney office for the district of new jersey (u.s. attorney) into financial relationships between major orthopaedic manufacturers and consulting orthopaedic surgeons. as part of that settlement, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services (oig-hhs). a copy of the cia is filed as an exhibit to this report. if we do not comply with the terms of the cia, we could be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. we could be subject to further governmental investigations or actions by other third parties based on allegations of wrongdoing similar to those made by the u.s. attorney. our settlement with the u.s. government does not preclude other governmental agencies or state authorities from conducting investigations or instituting proceedings based on allegations of wrongdoing similar to those made by the u.s. attorney. as previously disclosed, we are cooperating with the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice with regard to an ongoing investigation into potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry. we are also cooperating with investigative demands made by two state attorneys general. while we believe that the pending state investigations are not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, similar investigations by other states or governmental agencies are possible. we cannot assure that the costs of defending or resolving those investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our temporary suspension of the u.s. marketing and distribution of one of our hip products has adversely affected sales growth, resulted in claims and may adversely affect our ability to compete in the hip resurfacing market in the u.s. as previously reported, we temporarily suspended the marketing and distribution of our durom acetabular component ( durom cup) in the u.s. in july 2008. although we resumed u.s. marketing and distribution in august 2008, we believe the effects of this action had a negative impact on our hip product sales growth through 2009 and may continue to have a negative impact in 2010. following our action, product liability lawsuits and other claims were asserted against us and additional similar claims may be asserted. in addition, our entry into the u.s. hip resurfacing market has been delayed as the durom cup had been integral to our plans for entry into that market. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the united states and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these 14 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the united states, which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derive more than 40 percent of our net sales from outside the united states. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the united states; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues are generated in europe and japan. the united states dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues. the united states patent and trademark office and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. future changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. these measures may prove to be ineffective and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. if we were to lose such litigation involving material intellectual property rights, we may be unable to manufacture, sell or use some of our products. we may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit intellectual property rights. these activities involve risks, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not recognize expected cost savings or the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or strategic alliances; our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations to us or the joint venture; and the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible with ours. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. we are subject to putative stockholder class action lawsuits that could be costly to defend and distracting to management. we and a number of our related parties are defending putative stockholder class action lawsuits alleging violations of the securities laws or violations of the federal employee retirement income security act of 1974 arising out of trading or ownership of our common stock. we believe these lawsuits are without merit, and we intend to defend them vigorously. we may incur significant expenses associated with the defense of these lawsuits, however, and the necessary participation of our executive officers could detract from their ability to devote their full time and attention to our business operations. risks related to our industry the ongoing investigation by the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice regarding potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. we are cooperating fully with the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice with regard to an ongoing investigation of potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry. although we have adopted policies and procedures designed to prevent improper payments and we train our employees, distributors and others concerning these issues, we cannot assure that violations of these requirements will not occur. if we are found to have violated the foreign corrupt practices act, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. the impact of healthcare reform in the u.s. on us is uncertain. there is increasing emphasis within the federal government to reform healthcare in the u.s., though it is uncertain whether new legislation will be enacted. to the extent that the number of uninsured or underinsured patients is reduced, demand for our products could marginally increase. however, efforts to pay for healthcare reform through a proposed new tax on medical device companies and efforts to contain healthcare costs, directly through pricing or reimbursement controls or indirectly by government-sponsored healthcare insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. accordingly, the impact of healthcare reform on the medical device industry in general or us in particular remains uncertain. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, the federal anti-kickback statute, similar state laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the united states, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience pressure to 16 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the united states, other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, we may be subject to a range of sanctions including: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the fda refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. we may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies typically have substantial retentions or deductibles that we are responsible for. product liability claims in excess of applicable 17 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won and swedish krona. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2009, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won and swedish krona and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2010 through june 2012. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2009 and 2008 were $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2009 and 2008 were $202.4 million and $207.5 million, respectively. the weighted average contract rates outstanding are euro:usd 1.40, usd:swiss franc 1.10, usd:japanese yen 94, british pound:usd 1.66, usd:canadian dollar 1.11, australian dollar:usd 0.75, usd:korean won 1,208 and usd:swedish krona 7.52. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2009 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar, korean won and swedish krona, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2012, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $54.9 million, $20.5 million, $25.0 million, $10.2 million, $4.7 million, $9.9 million, $2.9 million and $1.8 million for the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar, korean won and swedish krona contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $2,346 million at december 31, 2009, primarily in swiss francs, japanese yen and euros. approximately $1,309 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2009 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a 32 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. presently, we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in u.s. government treasury funds and bank deposits. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our principal exposure to interest rate risk arises from the variable rates associated with our credit facilities. our senior notes have fixed interest rates and are not exposed to any risk from movement in interest rates. we are subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed senior credit facility and our uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of our debt outstanding under the senior credit facility bears interest at short-term rates. we currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure, but we may do so in the future. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2009, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 33 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2009, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 34 zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2009, the audit committee of the board of directors was not asked to and did not approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as added by section 202 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. 65 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required by this item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year and the information included under the caption executive officers in part i of this report. item 11. executive compensation the information required by this item concerning remuneration of our officers and directors and information concerning material transactions involving such officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required by this item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners and related stockholder matters, including equity compensation plan information, is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence the information required by this item concerning certain relationships and related transactions and director independence is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information required by this item concerning principal accounting fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. 66 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2009 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 13 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or 13 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement we entered into in september 2007, we may be subject to exclusion from federal healthcare programs. as previously reported, in september 2007 we settled an investigation conducted by the u.s. attorney office for the district of new jersey (u.s. attorney) into financial relationships between major orthopaedic manufacturers and consulting orthopaedic surgeons. as part of that settlement, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services (oig-hhs). a copy of the cia is filed as an exhibit to this report. if we do not comply with the terms of the cia, we could be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. the ongoing investigation by the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice regarding potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. we are cooperating fully with the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice with regard to an ongoing investigation of potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry. although we have adopted policies and procedures designed to prevent improper payments and we train our employees, distributors and others concerning these issues, we cannot assure that violations of these requirements will not occur. if we are found to have violated the foreign corrupt practices act, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derive more than 40 percent of our net sales from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations 14 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues. the u.s. patent and trademark office and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. future changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. these measures may prove to be ineffective and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. if we were to lose such litigation involving material intellectual property rights, we may be unable to manufacture, sell or use some of our products. we may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as previously reported, we temporarily suspended the marketing and distribution of our durom acetabular component ( durom cup) in the u.s. in july 2008. following our action, product liability lawsuits and other claims were asserted against us and additional similar claims may be asserted. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies typically have substantial retentions or deductibles for which we are responsible. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. we may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit intellectual property rights. these activities involve risks, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not recognize expected cost savings or the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or strategic alliances; our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations to us or the joint venture; and the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible with ours. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required, under current u.s. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. in january 2011, the irs issued a notice of proposed adjustment (nopa) for tax years 2006 and 2007. the nopa relates to intercompany pricing between certain of our u.s. and foreign subsidiaries. we believe that we have followed applicable u.s. tax laws and will vigorously defend our income tax positions. however, the ultimate settlement with the irs related to these proposed adjustments could have a material impact on our income tax expense and net earnings. the impact of u.s. healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. in march 2010, federal legislation to reform the u.s. healthcare system was enacted into law. the legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. we expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. for example, to the extent that the number of uninsured or underinsured patients is reduced, demand for our products in the u.s. could marginally increase. however, it is unclear how the new law will impact patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the medicare program. in addition, the new law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices scheduled to be implemented in 2013 that will apply to u.s. sales of a majority of our medical device products. many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided 16 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report by the department of health and human services, department of labor and department of the treasury. accordingly, while it is too early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the new law on our business, the legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, the federal anti-kickback statute, similar state laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely 17 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, we may be subject to a range of sanctions including: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the fda refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. moreover, the fda recently announced wide-ranging proposals to reform the 510(k) process. while it is not known which reforms may ultimately be implemented, they may result in more extensive data requirements and a longer process for obtaining clearance. we expect 510(k) reform could delay new products from reaching the market in the u.s. and increase the costs of introducing new products and features, which could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2010, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2011 through june 2013. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2010 were $1.4 billion. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2010 were $212.1 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2010 were euro:usd 1.35, usd:swiss franc 1.04, usd:japanese yen 87.20, british pound:usd 1.57, usd:canadian dollar 1.07, australian dollar:usd 0.82, usd:korean won 1,231, usd:swedish krona 7.32, usd:czech koruna 19.57, usd:thai baht 31.27, usd:taiwan dollar 30.62, usd:south african rand 7.85, usd:russian ruble 32.24 and usd:indian ruppee 48.08. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2010 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2012, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $59.8 million, $19.8 million, $36.1 million, $11.3 million, $7.2 million, $12.6 million, $1.7 million, $2.3 million, $0.6 million, $0.6 million, $1.7 million, $0.5 million, $1.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $2,250 million at december 31, 2010, primarily in euros and japanese yen. approximately $1,295 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2010 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate 32 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. we also have short-term and long-term investments in highly-rated corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, u.s. government treasury funds, municipal bonds, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations and our cash and cash equivalents. presently, all of our debt outstanding under the senior credit facility bears interest at short-term rates. in december 2010, we entered into interest rate swap agreements with a consolidated notional amount of $250 million that hedge a portion of our $500 million 4.625 percent senior notes due november 30, 2019. on the interest rate swap agreements outstanding as of december 31, 2010, we receive a fixed interest rate of 4.625 percent and we pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 133 basis points. the interest rate swap agreements are to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. the objective of the instruments is to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on cash and cash equivalents. these derivative instruments are designated as fair value hedges under u.s. gaap. changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in earnings and are offset by gains or losses on the underlying debt instrument. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2010, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on net interest expense. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, derivative instruments, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly-rated financial institutions and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry where we do business, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. 33 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2010, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 34 zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2010, the audit committee of the board of directors was not asked to and did not approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as added by section 202 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. 67 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information required by this item regarding our directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled proposal no. 1: election of directors in our definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on may 2, 2011 (the 2011 proxy statement ). information about our audit committee is incorporated by reference from the section entitled committees of the board in our 2011 proxy statement. information regarding the procedures by which stockholders may recommend nominees to the board of directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled corporate governance nominations for directors in our 2011 proxy statement. information regarding our executive officers is set forth in item 1 of part i of this report under the caption executive officers. information about compliance with section 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 is incorporated by reference from the section entitled section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance in our 2011 proxy statement. we have adopted the zimmer code of ethics for chief executive officer and senior financial officers (the finance code of ethics ), a code of ethics that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and corporate controller, and other finance organization employees. the finance code of ethics is publicly available in the investor relations section of our website, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmer.com or directly at http://investor.zimmer.com. if we make any substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or chief accounting officer and corporate controller, we will disclose the nature of that amendment in the investor relations section of our website. item 11. executive compensation information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled committees of the board and executive compensation in our 2011 proxy statement. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled security ownership of certain beneficial owners, security ownership of directors and executive officers and equity compensation plan information in our 2011 proxy statement. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled corporate governance certain relationships and related person transactions and corporate governance director independence in our 2011 proxy statement. item 14. principal accounting fees and services information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled audit and non-audit fees and audit committee pre-approval of services of independent registered public accounting firm in proposal no. 4 of our 2011 proxy statement. 68 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2010 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company is exposed to certain market risks as part of its ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, that could impact its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. derivative financial instruments are used solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk the company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its operating results, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the company is primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in japanese yen and the euro. the company manages the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows the company to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. in order to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the company enters into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward or options contracts with major international financial institutions. these forward and option contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. the notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward and option contracts, principally japanese yen and the euro, entered into with third parties, at december 31, 2001 and 2000, were $82 million and $39 million, respectively. for all contracts outstanding at december 31, 2001: the company has rights to purchase u.s. dollars and sell japanese yen; contract maturity dates range from january 2002 to december 2002; and the weighted average contract rate is yen 117. the company maintains written policies and procedures governing its risk management activities. the company policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of its risk management program, the company furthermore performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2001, indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the japanese yen, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes, depending on the direction of the change, by approximately $8.2 million. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result 22 table of contents of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because contract gains and losses would offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. the company had exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $87 million and $49 million at december 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, primarily in the japanese yen and the euro. commodity price risk the company purchases raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, medical grade polymer and sterile packaging. the company enters into 12 to 24 month supply contracts on these commodities to alleviate the impact of market fluctuation in prices. as part of the company risk management program, sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes are performed. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could impact its results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to interest rate risks through its regular operations and financing activities. presently, the company invests its cash and cash equivalents in money market and other interest bearing accounts. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of its invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. the company is subject to movements in interest rate risk on the committed credit facility and its uncommitted credit facilities. all of its debt outstanding is floating. the company currently does not hedge its interest rate exposure. if interest rates were to increase 10 percent (or 35 basis points), assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, the result would be an annual increase of interest expense of approximately $1.3 million. however, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. presently, the company intends to utilize cash flow to reduce outstanding borrowings. credit risk a substantial portion of the company trade receivables is due from hospitals and other healthcare providers. the company generally does not receive collateral for these receivables. although the concentration of these receivables with customers in a similar industry poses a risk of non-collection, the company believes this risk is mitigated somewhat by the large number and geographic dispersion of these customers and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and the company believes that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 23 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company is exposed to certain market risks as part of its ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, that could impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. derivative financial instruments are used solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk the company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the company is primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in japanese yen and the euro. the company manages the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows the company to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. in order to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the company enters into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major international financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. the notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward and option contracts, principally japanese yen and the euro, entered into with third parties, at december 31, 2002 and 2001, were $252 million and $82 million, respectively. for all contracts outstanding at december 31, 2002: the company has obligation to purchase u.s. dollars and sell japanese yen and the euro at set maturity dates ranging from january 2003 through september 2004. the weighted average contract rates for 2003 and 2004 are 129 and 117 yen and $0.97 and $1.03 euro, respectively. the company maintains written policies and procedures governing its risk management activities. the company policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of its risk management program, the company furthermore performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2002, indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the japanese yen and the euro, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $17.1 million and $9.9 million for the yen and euro contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject the company to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. the company had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $135 million and $87 million at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, primarily in the japanese yen and the euro. commodity price risk the company purchases raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, medical grade polymer and sterile packaging. the company enters into 12 to 24 month supply contracts on these commodities to alleviate the impact of market fluctuation in prices. as part of the company risk management program, sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes are performed. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could impact its results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to interest rate risks through its regular operations and financing activities. presently, the company invests its cash and cash equivalents in money market and investment-grade short-term debt instruments. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of its invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. the company exposure to interest rate risk arises principally from the variable rates associated with its credit 20 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2002 form 10-k facilities. the company is subject to movements in interest rate risk on the committed credit facility and its uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of its debt outstanding is floating. the company currently does not hedge its interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. based upon the company overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2002, a change of 10% in interest rates would not have a material effect on the company earnings or cash flows over a one-year period. however, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. presently, the company intends to utilize cash flow to reduce outstanding borrowings. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject the company to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. the company places its investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. the company does not believe it is exposed to any significant credit risk on its cash and cash equivalents and investments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the financial institutions with which it conducts business. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed the obligation of the company. the company also minimizes exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. credit risk is managed through the monitoring of counterparty financial condition and by the use of standard credit guidelines. the company does not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of the company trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and the company believes that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 21 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2002 form 10-kquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company is exposed to certain market risks as part of its ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. derivative financial instruments are used solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment foreign currency exchange risk the company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the company is primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in swiss francs, japanese yen, euro, canadian dollars and australian dollars. the company manages the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows the company to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. in order to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the company enters into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major international financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. the notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts, principally japanese yen, euro, canadian dollars and australian dollars, entered into with third parties, at december 31, 2003 and 2002, were $506 million and $252 million, respectively. for all contracts outstanding at december 31, 2003, the company has an obligation to purchase u.s. dollars and sell japanese yen, euro, canadian dollars and australian dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2004 through december 2005. the weighted average contract rates for 2004 and 2005 are yen:usd 116 and 115, usd:euro 1.06 and 1.11, canadian dollar:usd 1.41 and 1.43 and usd:australian dollar 0.64 and 0.62, respectively. the company maintains written policies and procedures governing its risk management activities. the company policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of its risk management program, the company furthermore performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2003, indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the japanese yen, euro, canadian dollar and australian dollar, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $25.2 million, $21.9 million, $4.9 million and $4.9 million for the yen, euro, canadian dollar and australian dollar contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject the company to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. the company had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,775 million and $135 million at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily in swiss francs, japanese yen and euro. approximately $1,333 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2003 relates to goodwill and intangible assets recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments as a result of the exchange offers. commodity price risk the company purchases raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. the company enters into 12 to 24 month supply contracts, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the impact of market fluctuation in prices. as part of the company risk management program, sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes are performed. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 30 zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2003 form 10-k interest rate risk in the normal course of business, the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could impact its results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to interest rate risks through its regular operations and financing activities. presently, the company invests its cash and equivalents in money market and investment-grade short-term debt instruments. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of its invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. the company exposure to interest rate risk arises principally from the short-term rates associated with its credit facilities. the company is subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed senior credit facility and its uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of its debt outstanding bears interest at short-term rates. the company currently does not hedge its interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. based upon the company overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2003, a change of 10 percent in interest rates (or 23 basis points), assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would result in an annual increase of interest expense of approximately $2.5 million. however, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. presently, the company intends to utilize cash flow to reduce outstanding borrowings. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject the company to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. the company places its investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. the company does not believe it is exposed to any significant credit risk on its cash and equivalents and investments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the financial institutions with which it conducts business. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed the obligation of the company. the company also minimizes exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. credit risk is managed through the monitoring of counterparty financial condition and by the use of standard credit guidelines. the company does not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of the company trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and the company believes that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 31 zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2003 form 10-kquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company is exposed to certain market risks as part of its ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company manages its exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. derivative financial instruments are used solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk the company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the company is primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars and australian dollars. the company manages the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows the company to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. in order to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the company enters into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. the notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts, principally euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars and australian dollars, entered into with third parties, at december 31, 2004 and 2003, were $1,052 million and $506 million, respectively. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2004, the company has an obligation to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars and australian dollars or purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2005 through december 2006. the weighted average contract rates outstanding are euro: usd 1.20, usd: swiss franc 1.25, usd: yen 110, british pound: usd 1.76, usd: canadian dollar 1.37 and australian dollar: usd 0.65. the company maintains written policies and procedures governing its risk management activities. the company policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of its risk management program, the company also performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2004, indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar and australian dollar, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2007, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $62.1 million, $21.8 million, $20.3 million, $6.3 million, $4.4 million and $3.7 million for the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar and australian dollar contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject the company to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. the company had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,860 million at december 31, 2004, primarily in swiss francs, japanese yen and euros. approximately $1,140 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2004 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. the company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency translation gains/ losses recognized in earnings under sfas no. 52, foreign currency translation are generally offset with gain/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk the company purchases raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. the company enters into 12 to 24 month supply contracts, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the impact of market fluctuation in prices. as part of the company risk management program, sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes are performed. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 33 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2004 form 10-k interest rate risk in the normal course of business, the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could impact its results of operations and financial condition. the company manages its exposure to interest rate risks through its regular operations and financing activities. presently, the company invests its cash and equivalents in money market and investment-grade short-term debt instruments. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of its invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. the company exposure to interest rate risk arises principally from the variable rates associated with its credit facilities. the company is subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed senior credit facility and its uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of its debt outstanding bears interest at short-term rates. the company currently does not hedge its interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. based upon the company overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2004, a change of 10 percent in interest rates (or 25 basis points), assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would result in an annual increase of interest expense of approximately $1.0 million. however, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject the company to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. the company places its investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. the company does not believe it is exposed to any significant credit risk on its cash and equivalents and investments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the financial institutions with which it conducts business. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed the obligation of the company. the company also minimizes exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. credit risk is managed through the monitoring of counterparty financial condition and by the use of standard credit guidelines. the company does not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of the company trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and the company believes that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 34 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2004 form 10-k management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework . based on our assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2004, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent auditors have audited our assessment of the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2004, as stated in their report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 35 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2004 form 10-k there was no change in the company internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2004 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company internal control over financial reporting. item 9b.other information " --> item 9b. other information none 61 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2004 form 10-k part iii " --> part iii item 10.directors and executive officers of the registrant " --> item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant the information required by this item concerning directors and executive officers of the company is incorporated herein by reference from the company definitive proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a and the information included under the caption executive officers of the company in part i hereof. item 11.executive compensation " --> item 11. executive compensation the information required by this item concerning remuneration of the company officers and directors and information concerning material transactions involving such officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference from the company definitive proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of the company most recent fiscal year. item 12.security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters " --> item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required by this item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners and related stockholder matters, including equity compensation plan information, is incorporated herein by reference from the company definitive proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of the company most recent fiscal year. item 13.certain relationships and related transactions " --> item 13. certain relationships and related transactions the information required by this item concerning certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by reference from the company definitive proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of the company most recent fiscal year. item 14.principal accounting fees and services " --> item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information required by this item concerning principal accounting fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from the company definitive proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of the company most recent fiscal year. 62 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2004 form 10-k part iv " --> part iv item 15.exhibits and financial statement schedules " --> item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 15 risk factors " --> item 1a. risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to our industry our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including orthobiological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. in the global markets for reconstructive orthopaedic implants, trauma products and other orthopaedic products, a limited number of competitors, including depuy orthopaedics, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson johnson), stryker corporation, biomet, inc., wright medical group, inc., synthes, inc. and smith nephew plc, compete with us for the majority of product sales. in the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily with medtronic sofamor danek, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), depuy spine (a subsidiary of johnson johnson), synthes, inc., stryker corporation and ebi, l.p. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.). in the dental reconstructive implant category, we compete primarily with nobel biocare holding ag, straumann holding ag, and implant innovations, inc. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.). competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; relationships with customers; and service. in local markets outside of the united states, other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other health care providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. for example, managed care programs often prescribe only those orthopaedic recovery products that match a patient as to age, need for mobility and other parameters in an effort to provide more cost-effective care. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other health care providers for our products, demand for our products may decline or we may experience pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on sales, financial condition and results of operation. in international markets, where the movement toward health care reform and the development of managed care are generally not as advanced as in the united states, we have experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of health care reform. in japan, for example, a government-operated insurance system reimburses customers 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k for our products. under this system, the japanese government periodically reviews and reduces the reimbursement levels for products. if the japanese government continues to reduce the reimbursement level for orthopaedic products, our sales, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. we are subject to cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. many existing and potential customers for our products have combined to form group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in an ongoing investigation by the united states department of justice of companies in the orthopaedics industry, the results of which may have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. on march 31, 2005, we received a subpoena from the united states department of justice through the united states attorney office in newark, new jersey, requesting documents related to consulting contracts or professional service agreements we have with orthopaedic surgeons. we understand that similar inquiries were directed to at least four other companies in the orthopaedics industry. we are cooperating fully with federal authorities with regard to this matter. if, as a result of this investigation, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable fda medical device or other material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, that failure could result in, among other things: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the u.s. food and drug administration refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. any of these actions, in combination or alone, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things: clinical efficacy; product standards; packaging requirements; labeling requirements; import/export restrictions; tariff regulations; duties; and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries, such as the european medical devices directive, are similar to those of the fda. in addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as both the fda and foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse regulations that could require us to change our 16 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the united states, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration (va) health programs and civilian health and medical program uniformed service (champus). the scope and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. because of the far-reaching and uncertain nature of these laws, we are required to monitor our practices to remain in compliance with these laws. if we were to violate one or more of these laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, some of our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful and, as a result, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. our business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. our products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings. in addition, some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. as part of our risk management policy, we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage. however, product liability claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies may have substantial retentions or deductibles that provide that we will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of those retentions or deductibles. we will be responsible for paying any losses that are below those retentions or deductibles. a product liability claim in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. risks related to our business if we fail to effectively utilize the skills and knowledge of orthopaedic surgeons, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. we maintain professional relationships with a number of orthopaedic surgeons who assist in product research and development and advise us on how to satisfy the full range of surgeon and patient needs. these professionals speak about our products at medical seminars, assist in the training of other professionals in the use of our products and provide us with feedback on the industry acceptance of our new products. the failure of our products to retain the support of orthopaedic surgeons, who frequently recommend products or are involved in product selection decisions, or the failure of our new products to secure and retain similar support from surgeons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the united states and abroad depends largely upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of their detailed knowledge of products and instruments. many commonly provide operating room personnel with implant and instrument product training as well as product support in the operating room. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if some of the business practices of our independent sales agents and distributors are challenged as unlawful, they may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; 17 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products and attract key surgeons to advocate these new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the united states, which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. because we sell our products in more than 100 countries, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. in 2005, we derived approximately $1,344 million, or 41% of our total revenue, from sales of our products outside of the united states. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; differing labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. a substantial portion of our foreign generated revenues are generated in europe and japan. the united states dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the derivative financial instruments we enter into are in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. the forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. in the united states, patent applications are confidential for 18 months following their filing, and because third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, our patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. if a third party initiates litigation regarding our patents, our collaborators patents, or those patents for which we have license rights, and is successful, a court could declare our patents invalid or unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents. the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. if the uspto or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more 18 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k broadly, the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation will likely increase. on the other hand, if the uspto or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more narrowly, the value of our proprietary rights may be reduced. any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. competitors may also capture market share from us by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. we also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. we attempt to protect this information with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators. these individuals may breach these agreements and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. however, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may complete additional acquisitions, which could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions. we may not be able to complete additional acquisitions or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. acquiring and integrating new businesses involves risk, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integration may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipated in selecting our acquisition candidates; and one or more of our acquisition candidates also may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we failed to discover through our diligence prior to the acquisition. if we are unable to form strategic alliances, or if our strategic alliances fail to achieve their objectives, our operating results will be negatively impacted. several of our strategic initiatives involve alliances with other orthopaedic and biotechnology companies. these include our agreement with revivicor, inc. relating to orthopaedic tissue technology, our collaboration with isto technologies, inc. relating to regenerative cartilage technology and our distribution agreement with heraeus relating to orthopaedic bone cement products. the success of these and similar arrangements is largely dependent on technology and other intellectual property contributed by our strategic partners or the resources, efforts, and skills of these partners. disputes and difficulties in such relationships are common, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. merger and acquisition activity may exacerbate these conflicts. the benefits of these alliances are reduced or eliminated when strategic partners: terminate the agreements or limit our access to the underlying intellectual property; fail to devote financial or other resources to the alliances and thereby hinder or delay development, manufacturing or commercialization activities; fail to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize any products; or fail to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue financing their portion of the development, manufacturing, or commercialization costs or their own operations. furthermore, under some of our strategic alliances, we may make milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of products with no assurance that we will ever recoup these payments. we also may make equity investments in our strategic partners. these investments may decline in value and result in our incurring financial statement charges in the future. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to 19 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our future profitability may be affected by changes to our product category and region sales mix. reconstructive implants produce the highest operating profit margins among our product categories. these products accounted for approximately 83 percent of 2005 net sales. sales in our americas region accounted for approximately 59 percent of 2005 net sales. sales in the americas region produce the highest operating profit margins in the geographic markets in which we operate. while we expect net sales of reconstructive implants and net sales in the americas region to remain strong, changes to our product category mix or our region sales mix could adversely affect our future profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars and australian dollars. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2005, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars and australian dollars or purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2006 through may 2008. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2005 and 2004, were $1,142 million and $861 million, respectively. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2005 and 2004, were $195 million and $191 million, respectively. the weighted average contract rates outstanding are euro: usd 1.26, usd: swiss franc 1.20, usd: japanese yen 102, british pound: usd 1.79, usd: canadian dollar 1.22 and australian dollar: usd 0.73. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2005, indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar and australian dollar, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2009, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $67.4 million, $21.2 million, $20.0 million, $11.2 million, $6.9 million and $5.9 million for the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar and australian dollar contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. we had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,775 million at december 31, 2005, primarily in swiss francs, japanese yen and euros. approximately $1,003 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2005 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency translation gains/losses recognized in earnings under sfas no. 52, foreign currency translation are generally offset with gain/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into 12 to 24 month supply contracts, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 35 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. presently, we invest our cash and equivalents in money market and investment-grade short-term debt instruments. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our principal exposure to interest rate risk arises from the variable rates associated with our credit facilities. we are subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed senior credit facility and our uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of our debt outstanding bears interest at short-term rates. we currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2005, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense. however, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. credit risk is managed through the monitoring of counterparty financial condition and by the use of standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 36 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. (the company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2005. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework. based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2005, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited management assessment of the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2005, as stated in their report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 37 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. item 9b.other information " --> item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2005, the audit committee of the board of directors did not approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as added by section 202 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. the zimmer holdings, inc. employee stock purchase plan was amended effective january 1, 2006. a copy of the plan as amended is being filed with the securities and exchange commission as exhibit 99.2 to this report. 61 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k part iii " --> part iii item 10.directors and executive officers of the registrant " --> item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant the information required by this item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2006 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year and the information included under the caption executive officers in part i of this report. item 11.executive compensation " --> item 11. executive compensation the information required by this item concerning remuneration of our officers and directors and information concerning material transactions involving such officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2006 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 12.security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters " --> item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required by this item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners and related stockholder matters, including equity compensation plan information, is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2006 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 13.certain relationships and related transactions " --> item 13. certain relationships and related transactions the information required by this item concerning certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2006 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 14.principal accounting fees and services " --> item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information required by this item concerning principal accounting fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2006 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. 62 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2005 form 10-k part iv " --> part iv item 15.exhibits and financial statement schedules " --> item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 15 risk factors " --> item 1a. risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to our industry our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including orthobiological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. in the global markets for reconstructive orthopaedic implants, trauma products and other orthopaedic products, a limited number of competitors, including depuy orthopaedics, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson johnson), stryker corporation, biomet, inc., wright medical group, inc., synthes, inc. and smith nephew plc, compete with us for the majority of product sales. in the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily with medtronic sofamor danek, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), depuy spine (a subsidiary of johnson johnson), synthes, inc., stryker corporation and ebi, l.p. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.). in the dental reconstructive implant category, we compete primarily with nobel biocare holding ag, straumann holding ag, and implant innovations, inc. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.). competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report reputation; relationships with customers; and service. in markets outside of the united states, other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other health care providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. for example, managed care programs often prescribe only those orthopaedic recovery products that match a patient as to age, need for mobility and other parameters in an effort to provide more cost-effective care. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other health care providers for our products, demand for our products may decline or we may experience pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on sales, financial condition and results of operations. in international markets, where the movement toward health care reform and the development of managed care are generally not as advanced as in the united states, we have experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of health care reform. in japan, for example, a government-operated insurance system reimburses customers for our products. under this system, the japanese government periodically reviews and reduces the reimbursement levels for products. if the japanese government continues to reduce the reimbursement level for orthopaedic products, our sales, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. we are subject to cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in ongoing investigations by the united states department of justice of companies in the orthopaedics industry, the results of which may have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. in march 2005, we received a subpoena and we have received supplemental requests since that time from the united states department of justice through the united states attorney office in newark, new jersey, requesting documents and related information for the period beginning january 1998 related to consulting contracts, professional service agreements and other agreements by which we may provide remuneration to orthopaedic surgeons, including research and other grant agreements. in june 2006, we received a subpoena from the united states department of justice, antitrust division, requesting documents for the period beginning january 2001 through june 2006, pertaining to an investigation of possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violations of the antitrust laws, involving the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. we are cooperating fully with federal authorities with regard to these investigations, which we understand involve a number of other orthopaedic manufacturers as well. if, as a result of these investigations, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable fda medical device or other material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, that failure could result in, among other things: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the fda refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. any of these actions, in combination or alone, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things: clinical efficacy; product standards; packaging requirements; labeling requirements; import/export restrictions; tariff regulations; duties; and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries, such as the european medical devices directive, are similar to those of the fda. in addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as both the fda and foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse regulations that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the united states, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid, veterans administration (va) health programs and civilian health and medical program uniformed service (champus). the scope and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. because of the far-reaching and uncertain nature of these laws, we are required to monitor our practices to remain in compliance with these laws. if we were to violate one or more of these laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, some of our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful and, as a result, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. our business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. our products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings. in addition, some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. as part of our risk management policy, we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage. however, product liability claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies may have substantial retentions or deductibles that provide that we will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed 17 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report the amount of those retentions or deductibles. we will be responsible for paying any losses that are below those retentions or deductibles. a product liability claim in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. risks related to our business if we fail to effectively utilize the skills and knowledge of orthopaedic surgeons, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. we maintain professional relationships with a number of orthopaedic surgeons who assist in product research and development and advise us on how to satisfy the full range of surgeon and patient needs. these professionals speak about our products at medical seminars, assist in the training of other professionals in the use of our products and provide us with feedback on the industry acceptance of our new products. the failure of our products to retain the support of orthopaedic surgeons, who frequently recommend products or are involved in product selection decisions, or the failure of our new products to secure and retain similar support from surgeons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the united states and abroad depends largely upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of their detailed knowledge of products and instruments. many commonly provide operating room personnel with implant and instrument product training as well as product support in the operating room. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if some of the business practices of our independent sales agents and distributors are challenged as unlawful, they may have to change these practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products and attract key surgeons to advocate these new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the united states, which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. because we sell our products in more than 100 countries, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. in 2006, we derived approximately $1,532.9 million, or 44% of our total revenue, from sales of our products outside of the united states. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states; 18 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; differing labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. a substantial portion of our foreign generated revenues are generated in europe and japan. the united states dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the derivative financial instruments we enter into are in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. the forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. in the united states, patent applications are confidential for 18 months following their filing, and because third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, our patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. if a third party initiates litigation regarding our patents, our collaborators patents, or those patents for which we have license rights, and is successful, a court could declare our patents invalid or unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents. the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. if the uspto or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more broadly, the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation will likely increase. on the other hand, if the uspto or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more narrowly, the value of our proprietary rights may be reduced. any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. competitors may also capture market share from us by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. we also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. we attempt to protect this information with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators. these individuals may breach these agreements and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. however, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report we may complete additional acquisitions, which could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions. we may not be able to complete additional acquisitions or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. acquiring and integrating new businesses involves risk, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integration may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipated in selecting our acquisition candidates; and one or more of our acquisition candidates also may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we failed to discover through our diligence prior to the acquisition. if we are unable to form strategic alliances, or if our strategic alliances fail to achieve their objectives, our operating results will be negatively impacted. several of our strategic initiatives involve alliances with other orthopaedic and biotechnology companies. these include our agreement with revivicor, inc. relating to orthopaedic tissue technology, our collaboration with isto technologies, inc. relating to regenerative cartilage technology and our distribution agreement with heraeus relating to orthopaedic bone cement products. the success of these and similar arrangements is largely dependent on technology and other intellectual property contributed by our strategic partners or the resources, efforts, and skills of these partners. disputes and difficulties in such relationships are common, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. merger and acquisition activity may exacerbate these conflicts. the benefits of these alliances are reduced or eliminated when strategic partners: terminate the agreements or limit our access to the underlying intellectual property; fail to devote financial or other resources to the alliances and thereby hinder or delay development, manufacturing or commercialization activities; fail to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize any products; or fail to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue financing their portion of the development, manufacturing, or commercialization costs or their own operations. furthermore, under some of our strategic alliances, we may make milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of products with no assurance that we will ever recoup these payments. we also may make equity investments in our strategic partners. these investments may decline in value and result in our incurring financial statement charges in the future. if we are unable to timely complete our search for a new chief executive officer and successfully transition to new leadership, our business could be adversely affected. in november 2006, j. raymond elliott, our chairman, president and chief executive officer, informed our board of directors that he plans to retire from his positions as president and chief executive officer in the first half of 2007, assuming a successor ceo has been named. he will remain as chairman through at least november 2007. our board of directors, with the assistance of spencer stuart, a global executive recruiting firm, has begun a search for a successor, which includes both internal and external candidates. we cannot assure you when we will find a suitable candidate for this position and what effect, if any, a new ceo may have on our business and our ability to retain our senior executives and other key scientific, technical, sales, marketing and other personnel. the loss of the services of such senior executives or key personnel or any general instability in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business and operating strategies. once we hire a new ceo, our success will be dependent upon his or her ability to gain proficiency in leading our company; his or her ability to implement or adapt our corporate strategies and initiatives and his or her ability to develop key professional relationships, including relationships with our team members, the independent distributors who market our products, the orthopaedic surgeons who assist and advise us and our key suppliers and other business partners. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our future profitability may be affected by changes to our product category and region sales mix. reconstructive implants produce the highest operating profit margins among our product categories. these products accounted for approximately 84 percent of 2006 net sales. sales in our americas region accounted for approximately 60 percent of 2006 net sales. sales in the americas region produce the highest operating profit margins in the geographic markets in which we operate. while we expect net sales of reconstructive implants and net sales in the americas region to remain strong, changes to our product category mix or our region sales mix could adversely affect our future profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars and australian dollars. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2006, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars and korean won or purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2007 through june 2009. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2006 and 2005, were $1,374.3 million and $1,142 million, respectively. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2006, were $205 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding are euro:usd 1.29, usd:swiss franc 1.20, usd:japanese yen 106, british pound:usd 1.82, usd:canadian dollar 1.15, australian dollar:usd 0.74 and usd:korean won 954. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2006, indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar and korean won, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2009, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $73.7 million, $21.4 million, $18.9 million, $13.8 million, $6.5 million, $6.9 million and $2.3 million for the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar and korean won contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. we had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,672 million at december 31, 2006, primarily in swiss francs, japanese yen and euros. approximately $1,102 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2006 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency translation gains/losses recognized in earnings under sfas no. 52, foreign currency translation are generally offset with gain/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into 12 to 24 month supply contracts, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 35 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. presently, we invest our cash and equivalents in money market and investment-grade short-term debt instruments. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our principal exposure to interest rate risk arises from the variable rates associated with our credit facilities. we are subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed senior credit facility and our uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of our debt outstanding bears interest at short-term rates. we currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2006, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense. however, because the effects of any method selected to mitigate the risk of interest rate changes are uncertain, this analysis assumes that management will take no action to mitigate interest rate risk. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 36 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2006. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework. based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2006, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited management assessment of the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2006, as stated in their report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 37 zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report item 9b.other information " --> item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2006, the audit committee of the board of directors was not asked to and did not approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as added by section 202 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. 64 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report part iii " --> part iii item 10.directors, executive officers and corporate governance " --> item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required by this item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year and the information included under the caption executive officers in part i of this report. item 11.executive compensation " --> item 11. executive compensation the information required by this item concerning remuneration of our officers and directors and information concerning material transactions involving such officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 12.security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters " --> item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required by this item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners and related stockholder matters, including equity compensation plan information, is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 13.certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence " --> item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required by this item concerning certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 14.principal accounting fees and services " --> item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information required by this item concerning principal accounting fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. 65 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2006 form 10-k annual report part iv " --> part iv item 15.exhibits and financial statement schedules " --> item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 14 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to our business if we fail to comply with the terms of the deferred prosecution agreement and corporate integrity agreement we entered into in september 2007, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. as previously reported, on september 27, 2007, we settled an investigation conducted by the united states attorney office for the district of new jersey (the u.s. attorney ) into financial relationships between major orthopaedic manufacturers and consulting orthopaedic surgeons. as part of that settlement, we entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the u.s. attorney and a corporate integrity agreement (the cia ) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services (the oig-hhs ). copies of the dpa and cia are filed as exhibits to this report and a copy of the dpa is available on our website at www.zimmer.com. the dpa has a term of 18 months and provides for oversight by a federally appointed monitor. if we breach the dpa, we could be subject to prosecution for violations of the federal anti-kickback statute that the u.s. attorney alleges we committed between 2002 and 2006, as well as any new or continuing violations. we could also be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. any of these consequences would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the cia requires us to continue our corporate compliance program and to adhere to certain other provisions, including reporting requirements. we also agreed to retain an independent review organization to perform annual reviews to assist us in assessing our compliance with the cia to ensure that arrangements we enter into do not violate the federal anti-kickback statute. if we breach the cia, the oig-hhs may take further action against us, up to and including excluding us from participation in federal healthcare programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our recent settlement with the department of justice and oig-hhs could lead to further governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. as a result of the publicity surrounding our recent settlement with the department of justice and oig-hhs, including the allegations of wrongdoing made by the u.s. attorney, other governmental agencies, including state authorities, could conduct investigations or institute proceedings that are not precluded by terms of that settlement. as previously disclosed, the u.s. securities and exchange commission has commenced an informal investigation into sales by us and other companies of medical devices in foreign countries. we are also cooperating with an investigative demand made by one state attorney general. while we believe that the pending state investigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, similar investigations by other states or governmental agencies are possible. in addition, in january 2008, we received a written request from the united states senate special committee on aging ( committee ), seeking, among other things, additional information regarding the financial relationships we publicly disclosed pursuant to the dpa. we responded to this request in writing and through testimony before the committee in february 2008. also, as previously reported, two shareholder derivative actions were filed purportedly on our behalf against current and two former directors relating to oversight of the conduct that lead to the settlement with the u.s. attorney. in addition, the settlement with the u.s. attorney could increase our exposure to lawsuits by potential whistleblowers under the federal false claims acts, based on new theories or allegations arising from the allegations made by the u.s. attorney. we intend to review and take appropriate actions with respect to any such investigations or proceedings; however, we cannot assure that 14 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report the costs of defending or resolving those investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are not able to fulfill or otherwise resolve our existing royalty and other payment obligations to consulting surgeons and institutions, our ability to maintain our existing intellectual property rights and obtain future rights may be impaired. we are reviewing agreements we have entered into with consulting surgeons and institutions and assessing whether we can fulfill our obligations under these agreements in view of the dpa. if we do not perform those obligations or reach some other resolution acceptable to the affected consulting surgeons and institutions, our ability to use the intellectual property covered by those agreements may be adversely affected. in addition, our ability to enter into new agreements with consulting surgeons or institutions for the future development of intellectual property rights may be adversely affected. our ongoing efforts to enhance our corporate compliance program globally will require cooperation by many employees and others and may divert substantial financial and human resources from our other business activities. we are committed to devoting sufficient resources to meet our obligations under the dpa and cia. we have also announced our intention to further enhance our corporate compliance program and to expand those enhancements into all of our businesses on a global basis. successful implementation of this enhanced program will require the full cooperation of our employees, distributors and sales agents and the healthcare professionals with whom they interact. these efforts not only involve expense, but also require management and other key employees to focus extensively on these matters, preventing them from devoting as much time as they otherwise would to other business matters. in addition, if our competitors do not make similar enhancements to their compliance programs, this may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the united states and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if some of the business practices of our independent sales agents and distributors are challenged as unlawful, they may have to change these practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the united states, which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. because we sell our products in more than 100 countries, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. in 2007, we derived approximately $1,757.2 million, or 45% of our total revenue, from sales of our products outside of the united states. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the united states; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations stemming from any of the above identified risks could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues are generated in europe and japan. the united states dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the derivative financial instruments we enter into are in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. the forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, and then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. in the united states, patent applications are confidential for 18 months following their filing, and, because third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, our patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. if a third party initiates litigation regarding our patents, our collaborators patents, or those patents for which we have license rights, and is successful, a court could declare our patents invalid or unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents. the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. if the uspto or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more broadly, the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation will likely increase. on the other hand, if the uspto or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more narrowly, the value of our proprietary rights may be reduced. any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. competitors may also capture market share from us by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. we also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. we attempt to protect this information with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and collaborators. these individuals may breach these agreements and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. 16 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. however, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. we also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may complete additional acquisitions, which could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our businesses. acquisition involves risk, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integration may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipated in selecting our acquisition candidates; and one or more of our acquisition candidates also may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we failed to discover through our diligence prior to the acquisition. if we are unable to form strategic alliances, or if our strategic alliances fail to achieve their objectives, our operating results will be negatively impacted. we have entered into strategic alliances with other orthopaedic and biotechnology companies. these include our collaboration with isto technologies, inc. relating to regenerative cartilage technology and our distribution agreement with heraeus relating to orthopaedic bone cement products. the success of these and similar arrangements is largely dependent on technology and other intellectual property contributed by our strategic partners or the resources, efforts and skills of these partners. disputes and difficulties in such relationships are common, often due to conflicting priorities. merger and acquisition activity may exacerbate these issues. the benefits of these alliances are reduced or eliminated when strategic partners: terminate the agreements or limit our access to the underlying intellectual property; fail to devote financial or other resources to the alliances and thereby hinder or delay development, manufacturing or commercialization activities; fail to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize any products; or fail to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue financing their portion of the development, manufacturing, or commercialization costs or their own operations. furthermore, under some of our strategic alliances, we may make milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of products with no assurance that we will ever recoup these payments. we also may make equity investments in our strategic partners. these investments may decline in value and result in our incurring financial statement charges in the future. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our future profitability may be affected by changes to our product category and region sales mix. reconstructive implants produce the highest operating profit margins among our product categories. these products accounted for approximately 84% of 2007 net sales. sales in our americas region accounted for approximately 58% of 2007 net sales. sales in the americas region produce the highest operating profit margins in the geographic markets in which we operate. while we expect net sales of reconstructive implants and net sales in the americas region to remain strong, changes to our product category mix or our region sales mix could adversely affect our future profitability. risks related to our industry the ongoing informal investigation by the united states securities and exchange commission regarding potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. we are cooperating fully with the securities and exchange commission with regard to an ongoing informal investigation of potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry. the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, stockholders acting on their behalf and agents from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment and this law requires companies to maintain records which fairly and accurately reflect transactions and to maintain internal accounting controls. in many countries, hospitals and clinics are government-owned and healthcare professionals employed by such hospitals and clinics, with whom we regularly interact, meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. although we have adopted policies and procedures designed to prevent improper payments and we conduct training in this area, there 17 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report can be no assurance that violations of these requirements do not occur in connection with sales of our medical devices. if we are found to have violated the foreign corrupt practices act, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, the federal anti-kickback statute, similar state laws and physician self-referral laws. we settled alleged violations of the federal anti-kickback statute in september 2007, but we remain subject to these laws on an ongoing basis. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the united states, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. we are continuing to enhance our corporate compliance program and monitoring our practices on an ongoing basis to better ensure that we have proper controls in place to comply with these laws. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. for example, managed care programs often prescribe only those orthopaedic recovery products that match a patient as to age, need for mobility and other parameters in an effort to provide more cost-effective care. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline or we may experience pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. in international markets, where the movement toward healthcare reform and the development of managed care are generally not as advanced as in the united states, we have experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform. in japan, for example, a government-operated insurance system reimburses customers for our products. under this system, the japanese government periodically reviews and reduces the reimbursement levels for products. if the japanese government continues to reduce the reimbursement level for orthopaedic products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including orthobiological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. in the global markets for reconstructive orthopaedic implants, trauma products and other orthopaedic products, a limited number of competitors, including depuy orthopaedics, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson johnson), stryker corporation, biomet, inc., wright medical group, inc., synthes, inc. and smith nephew plc, compete with us for the majority of product sales. in the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily with medtronic sofamor danek, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), depuy spine (a subsidiary of johnson johnson), synthes, inc., stryker corporation and ebi, l.p. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.). in the dental reconstructive implant category, we compete primarily with nobel biocare holding ag, straumann holding ag, and implant innovations, inc. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.). competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; 18 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the united states, other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the fda and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable fda medical device or other material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, that failure could result in, among other things: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the fda refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. any of these actions, in combination or alone, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things: clinical efficacy; product standards; packaging requirements; labeling requirements; import/export restrictions; tariff regulations; duties; and tax requirements. many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries, such as the european medical devices directive, are similar to those of the fda. in addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as both the fda and foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. we may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. our business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. our products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings. in addition, some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. as part of our risk management policy, we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage. however, product liability claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies may have substantial retentions or deductibles that provide that we will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of those retentions or deductibles. we will be responsible for paying any losses that are below those retentions or deductibles. a product liability claim in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars and korean won. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2007, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars and korean won or purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2008 through may 2010. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2007 and 2006, were $1,244.6 million and $1,169.3 million, respectively. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2007 and 2006 were $138.4 million and $205.0 million, respectively. the weighted average contract rates outstanding are euro:usd 1.34, usd:swiss franc 1.19, usd:japanese yen 109, british pound:usd 1.92, usd:canadian dollar 1.09, australian dollar:usd 0.78 and usd:korean won 929. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2007, indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar and korean won, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2010, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $78.4 million, $13.1 million, $20.4 million, $14.6 million, $5.3 million, $6.5 million and $2.0 million for the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar and korean won contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. we had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,869.1 million at december 31, 2007, primarily in swiss francs, japanese yen and euros. approximately $1,178 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2007 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency translation gains/losses recognized in earnings under sfas no. 52, foreign currency translation are generally offset with gain/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. presently, we invest our cash and equivalents primarily in u.s. government treasury funds and bank deposits. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our principal exposure to interest rate risk arises from the variable rates associated with our credit facilities. we are subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed senior credit facility and our uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of our debt outstanding bears interest at short-term rates. we currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2007, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 35 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2007, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, as stated in their report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 36 zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2007, the audit committee of the board of directors was not asked to and did not approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as added by section 202 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we submitted the annual ceo certification for 2007 required by the new york stock exchange to the exchange on june 4, 2007. 63 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required by this item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year and the information included under the caption executive officers in part i of this report. item 11. executive compensation the information required by this item concerning remuneration of our officers and directors and information concerning material transactions involving such officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required by this item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners and related stockholder matters, including equity compensation plan information, is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required by this item concerning certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information required by this item concerning principal accounting fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. 64 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2007 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 13 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. risks related to our business if we fail to comply with the terms of the deferred prosecution agreement and corporate integrity agreement we entered into in september 2007, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. as previously reported, in september 2007 we settled an investigation conducted by the united states attorney office for the district of new jersey (the u.s. attorney ) into financial relationships between major orthopaedic manufacturers and consulting orthopaedic surgeons. as part of that settlement, we entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the u.s. attorney and a corporate integrity agreement (the cia ) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services (the oig-hhs ). copies of the dpa and cia are filed as exhibits to this report and a copy of the dpa is available on our website at www.zimmer.com. 13 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report if we do not comply with the terms of these agreements, we could be subject to prosecution for violations of the federal anti-kickback statute that the u.s. attorney alleges we committed between 2002 and 2006, as well as any new or continuing violations. we could also be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. we could be subject to further governmental investigations or actions by other third parties based on allegations of wrongdoing similar to those made by the u.s. attorney. our settlement with the u.s. government does not preclude other governmental agencies or state authorities from conducting investigations or instituting proceedings based on allegations of wrongdoing similar to those made by the u.s. attorney. as previously disclosed, we are cooperating with the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice with regard to an informal investigation into potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry. we are also cooperating with investigative demands made by two state attorneys general. while we believe that the pending state investigations are not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, similar investigations by other states or governmental agencies are possible. in addition, the settlement with the government could increase our exposure to lawsuits by potential whistleblowers under the federal false claims acts, based on new theories or allegations arising from the allegations made by the u.s. attorney. we intend to review and take appropriate actions with respect to any such investigations or proceedings; however, we cannot assure that the costs of defending or resolving those investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are not able to fulfill or otherwise resolve our existing royalty and other payment obligations to healthcare professional consultants and institutions, our ability to maintain our existing intellectual property rights and obtain future rights may be impaired. we have reviewed our existing royalty agreements with healthcare professional consultants and institutions in light of the requirements of the dpa. following our review, we resumed paying royalties with respect to some of the agreements. with respect to others, we made lump-sum payments to resolve our accrued and future royalty obligations and secure rights to the intellectual property. with respect to the remaining agreements, if we do not fulfill our obligations or reach some other resolution acceptable to the affected healthcare professional consultants and institutions, our ability to use the intellectual property covered by those agreements may be adversely affected. in addition, our ability to enter into new agreements with healthcare professional consultants or institutions for the future acquisition of intellectual property rights may be adversely affected. our temporary suspension of the u.s. marketing and distribution of one of our hip products has adversely affected sales, resulted in claims and may adversely affect our ability to compete in the growing hip resurfacing market in the u.s. in july 2008, we temporarily suspended the marketing and distribution of our durom acetabular component ( durom cup) in the u.s. we believe this action adversely affected our hip product sales in the u.s. in the last half of 2008. although we resumed u.s. marketing and distribution in august 2008, we expect the effects of this action will continue to have a negative impact through 2009. following our action, product liability lawsuits and other claims were asserted against us and we expect additional similar claims will be asserted. in addition, we expect that our entry into the growing u.s. hip resurfacing market has been delayed as the durom cup had been integral to our plans for entry into that market. the implementation of our enhanced global compliance program is requiring us to devote substantial resources, is disruptive to normal business activities and may place us at a competitive disadvantage. since entering into the dpa and cia, we have devoted substantial resources to meet our obligations under those agreements and implemented enhancements to our global compliance program applicable in most respects to all of our businesses on a global basis. these efforts have not only involved significant expense, but also required management and other key employees to focus extensively on these matters, preventing them from devoting as much time as they otherwise would to other business matters. if our competitors do not make similar enhancements to their compliance programs, this may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our results of operations. we believe we have lost market share as a result of recent events. if we are not able to recover or grow our market share, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. we believe that the disruptive effects of the product suspensions and recalls in 2008 and the implementation of our enhanced global compliance initiatives contributed to customer losses during the last half of 2008. we may not be able to recapture market share lost due to these events and we may continue to lose customers due to these factors in the future. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the united states and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 14 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the united states, which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derive more than 40% of our net sales from outside the united states. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the united states; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues are generated in europe and japan. the united states dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. the current global economic crisis has generally increased the risk of entering into derivative financial instruments, even if major international financial institutions act as counterparties. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues. 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report the united states patent and trademark office and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. future changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and collaborators. these measures may prove to be ineffective and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. if we were to lose such litigation involving material intellectual property rights, we may be unable to manufacture, sell or use some of our products. we may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit intellectual property rights. these activities involve risks, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not recognize expected cost savings from acquisitions or the anticipated benefits of strategic alliances; our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations to us or the joint venture; and the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible with ours. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. we are subject to putative stockholder class action lawsuits that could be costly to defend and distracting to management. we and a number of our related parties are defending putative stockholder class action lawsuits alleging violations of the securities laws, breaches of fiduciary duties or violations of the federal employee retirement income security act of 1974 arising out of trading or ownership of our common stock. we believe these lawsuits are without merit, and we intend to defend them vigorously. we may incur significant expenses associated with the defense of these lawsuits, however, and the necessary participation of our executive officers could detract from their ability to devote their full time and attention to our business operations. risks related to our industry the ongoing informal investigation by the u.s. securities and exchange commission regarding potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. we are cooperating fully with the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice with regard to an ongoing informal investigation of potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry. although we have adopted policies and procedures designed to prevent improper payments and we train our employees, distributors and others concerning these issues, we cannot assure that violations of these requirements will not occur. if we are found to have violated the foreign corrupt practices act, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims 16 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report laws, the federal anti-kickback statute, similar state laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the united states, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline or we may experience pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. continuing weakness in the global economy is likely to adversely affect our business until an economic recovery is underway. a significant portion of our products are used in procedures covered by private insurance, many of which, including procedures using our dental products, may be considered elective procedures. we expect the current global economic crisis is likely to reduce the availability or affordability of private insurance or may impact patient decisions to have an elective procedure performed. if current economic conditions continue or worsen, we expect that increasing levels of unemployment and pressures to contain healthcare costs could adversely affect the global growth rate of hip and knee procedure volume, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including orthobiological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the united states, other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. 17 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, we may be subject to a range of sanctions including: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the fda refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. we may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies typically have substantial retentions or deductibles that we are responsible for. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars and korean won. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2008, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars and korean won or purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2009 through june 2011. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2008 and 2007 were $1,343.0 million and $1,244.6 million, respectively. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2008 and 2007 were $207.5 million and $138.4 million, respectively. the weighted average contract rates outstanding are euro:usd 1.41, usd:swiss franc 1.10, usd:japanese yen 101, british pound:usd 1.86, usd:canadian dollar 1.09, australian dollar:usd 0.82 and usd:korean won 1,000. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2008 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar and korean won, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2011, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $72.3 million, $21.1 million, $32.4 million, $10.4 million, $7.1 million, $7.2 million and $1.9 million for the euro, swiss franc, japanese yen, british pound, canadian dollar, australian dollar and korean won contracts, respectively. any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. we had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $2,003 million at december 31, 2008, primarily in swiss francs, japanese yen and euros. approximately $1,234 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2008 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings under sfas no. 52, foreign currency translation, are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 33 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. presently, we invest our cash and equivalents primarily in u.s. government treasury funds and bank deposits. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. our principal exposure to interest rate risk arises from the variable rates associated with our credit facilities. we are subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed senior credit facility and our uncommitted credit facilities. presently, all of our debt outstanding bears interest at short-term rates. we currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure, but we may do so in the future. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2008, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense. further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. however, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 34 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2008. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2008, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2008, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 35 zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2008, the audit committee of the board of directors was not asked to and did not approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as added by section 202 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we submitted the annual ceo certification for 2008 required by the new york stock exchange to the exchange on june 3, 2008. 63 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance the information required by this item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year and the information included under the caption executive officers in part i of this report. item 11. executive compensation the information required by this item concerning remuneration of our officers and directors and information concerning material transactions involving such officers and directors is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters the information required by this item concerning the stock ownership of management and five percent beneficial owners and related stockholder matters, including equity compensation plan information, is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence the information required by this item concerning certain relationships and related transactions and director independence is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. item 14. principal accounting fees and services the information required by this item concerning principal accounting fees and services is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders which will be filed with the commission pursuant to regulation 14a within 120 days after the end of our most recent fiscal year. 64 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2008 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 13 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement we entered into in september 2007, we may be subject to exclusion from federal healthcare programs. as previously reported, in september 2007 we settled an investigation conducted by the u.s. attorney office for the district of new jersey (u.s. attorney) into financial relationships between major orthopaedic manufacturers and consulting orthopaedic surgeons. as part of that settlement, we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services (oig-hhs). a copy of the cia is filed as an exhibit to this report. if we do not comply with the terms of the cia, we could be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. the ongoing investigation by the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice regarding potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. we are cooperating fully with the u.s. securities and exchange commission and the u.s. department of justice with regard to an ongoing investigation of potential violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry. although we have adopted policies and procedures designed to prevent improper payments and we train our employees, distributors and others concerning these issues, we cannot assure that violations of these requirements will not occur. if we are found to have violated the foreign corrupt practices act, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. in july 2011, we received form fda-483 inspectional observations from the fda concerning quality systems at our warsaw, indiana manufacturing facility and we may not be able to timely and adequately address the quality system issues raised by the fda. following a july 2011 routine inspection of our warsaw, indiana manufacturing facility, the fda issued a form 483 notice. the form 483 notice identified certain inspectional observations regarding the facility quality systems. the facility manufactures reconstructive products that are sold globally. we have responded in writing to the observations and met with representatives of the district office of the fda to discuss our response and action plans. we expect the fda to conduct a re-inspection of this facility in the future to determine whether we have taken sufficient actions to address the observations described in the form 483 notice. if the fda 13 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2011 form 10-k annual report is not satisfied with our response to the issues identified in the form 483 notice, the fda could take additional actions such as issuing a warning letter to us, which, among other things, could adversely affect our ability to receive approvals of regulatory applications until the issues are resolved. any of these possible sanctions could have an adverse impact on our revenues, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and otherwise harm our business and reputation. challenging global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. during 2011, growth in the healthcare industry and our revenue growth were adversely affected by continuing challenges in the global economy. although the u.s. economy is recovering from the worst recession in decades, unemployment remains high and consumer confidence remains low, resulting in reduced numbers of insured patients and the deferral of elective reconstructive procedures. global economic conditions, particularly in europe, our second-largest operating segment, remain uncertain. we believe that european austerity measures implemented to address the ongoing financial crisis contributed to decreased healthcare utilization and increased pricing pressure for some of our products. we cannot assure you that challenges in the global economy will not continue to negatively impact procedure volumes, average selling prices and reimbursement rates from third-party payors, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we have experienced delays in the collection of receivables from hospitals in certain countries that have national healthcare systems, including certain regions in spain, italy, greece and portugal, which are the countries most directly affected by the euro zone crisis. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. continuing high unemployment in the u.s., a worsening of the european financial crisis or a failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of our european receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived more than 45 percent of our net sales in 2011 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; 14 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2011 form 10-k annual report difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues. the u.s. patent and trademark office and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. future changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. these measures may prove to be ineffective and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. pending and future intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. if we were to lose such litigation involving material intellectual property rights, such loss could result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as previously reported, we temporarily suspended the marketing and distribution of our durom &reg; acetabular component ( durom cup) in the u.s. in july 2008. subsequently, a number of product liability lawsuits and other claims have been asserted against us. we have settled some of these claims and the others are still pending. additional claims may be asserted in the future. we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2011 form 10-k annual report view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit intellectual property rights. these activities involve risks, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not recognize expected cost savings or the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or strategic alliances; our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations to us or the joint venture; and the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible with ours. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required, under current u.s. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. in may 2011, the irs concluded its examinations of our u.s. federal returns for years 2005 through 2007 and issued income tax assessments reallocating profits between certain of our u.s. and foreign subsidiaries. we believe that we have followed applicable u.s. tax laws and will vigorously defend our income tax positions. however, the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain and could have a material impact on our income tax expense, results of operations and cash flows for future periods. u.s. healthcare reform legislation includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. as the 2010 u.s. healthcare law continues to be phased in, we believe the law will have an impact on various aspects of our business operations. the 2013 imposition of the 2.3 percent medical device excise tax is forcing us to identify ways to reduce spending in other areas to offset the increased expense that we will incur because of the tax. we do not 16 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2011 form 10-k annual report expect to be able to pass along the cost of the tax to hospitals, which continue to face cuts to their medicare reimbursement per the healthcare law. nor do we expect to be able to offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from the expansion of health insurance coverage because of the demographics of the current uninsured population. the level of difficulty in terms of complying with the medical device tax will depend on the regulations put forth by the u.s. department of treasury. in addition, the law medicare payment reforms, such as accountable care organizations and bundled payments, will provide additional incentives for healthcare providers to reduce spending on our medical device products and reduce utilization of hospital procedures that use our products. accordingly, while it is still too early to fully understand and predict the ultimate impact of the law on our business, ongoing implementation of this legislation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, the federal anti-kickback statute, similar state laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. 17 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2011 form 10-k annual report we and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, we may be subject to a range of sanctions including: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the fda refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. moreover, the fda recently issued several guidance documents that may impact the amount of data required for 510(k) clearance of new products. the guidance documents may also require additional submissions for minor changes to products currently on the market, where none were required in the past. additionally, reauthorization of the medical device user fee act, to be completed by september 30, 2012, may lead to additional post-market requirements for certain 510(k) products. we expect these 510(k)-related changes could delay new products from reaching the market in the u.s. and increase the costs of introducing new products and features, which could adversely affect our business. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2011, the audit committee of the board of directors was not asked to and did not approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as added by section 202 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. 69 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2011 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information required by this item regarding our directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled proposal no. 1: election of directors in our definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on may 8, 2012 (the 2012 proxy statement ). information about our audit committee is incorporated by reference from the section entitled committees of the board in our 2012 proxy statement. information regarding the procedures by which stockholders may recommend nominees to the board of directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled corporate governance nominations for directors in our 2012 proxy statement. information regarding our executive officers is set forth in item 1 of part i of this report under the caption executive officers. information about compliance with section 16(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 is incorporated by reference from the section entitled section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance in our 2012 proxy statement. we have adopted the zimmer code of ethics for chief executive officer and senior financial officers (the finance code of ethics ), a code of ethics that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and corporate controller, and other finance organization employees. the finance code of ethics is publicly available in the investor relations section of our website, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmer.com or directly at http://investor.zimmer.com. if we make any substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or chief accounting officer and corporate controller, we will disclose the nature of that amendment in the investor relations section of our website. it em 11. executive compensation information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled committees of the board and executive compensation in our 2012 proxy statement. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled security ownership of certain beneficial owners, security ownership of directors and executive officers and equity compensation plan information in our 2012 proxy statement. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled corporate governance certain relationships and related person transactions and corporate governance director independence in our 2012 proxy statement. item 14. principal accounting fees and services information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled audit and non-audit fees and audit committee pre-approval of services of independent registered public accounting firm in proposal no. 3 of our 2012 proxy statement. 70 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2011 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, fi nancial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 9 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; 9 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. if our products are not considered cost-effective by third-party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. u.s. healthcare reform legislation includes provisions that may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. as the 2010 u.s. healthcare law continues to be phased in, we believe the law will have an impact on various aspects of our business operations. imposition of the 2.3 percent medical device excise tax effective 2013 has forced, and will continue to force us to identify ways to reduce spending in other areas to offset the expected earnings impact due to the tax. we do not expect to be able to pass along the cost of the tax to hospitals, which continue to face cuts to their medicare reimbursement per the healthcare law and the recently enacted fiscal cliff legislation. nor do we expect to be able to offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from the expansion of health insurance coverage because of the demographics of the current uninsured population. the medical device excise tax regulations and interim guidance issued late 2012 by the u.s. department of treasury did little to lessen the burden of complying with the excise tax statute. in addition, the law medicare payment reforms, such as accountable care organizations and bundled payments, could provide additional incentives for healthcare providers to reduce spending on our medical device products and reduce utilization of hospital procedures that use our products. accordingly, while it is still too early to fully understand and predict the ultimate impact of the law on our business, ongoing implementation of this legislation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to 10 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations. compliance with the fda requirements, including the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda, which may result in observations on form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates to foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda may also recommend prosecution to the u.s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. our industry is subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, the federal anti-kickback statute, similar state laws and physician self-referral laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. new regulations related to conflict minerals may adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, may increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and harm our reputation. in august 2012, as mandated by the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as conflict minerals, if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of the company products. these regulations require such companies to report annually whether or not the minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for the minerals. the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of conflict minerals used in the manufacture of medical devices, including our products. in addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. these new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived almost 50 percent of our net sales in 2012 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; 11 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds representing earnings of foreign subsidiaries may significantly impact our effective tax rates. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. challenging global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. during 2012, growth in the healthcare industry and our revenue growth were adversely affected by continuing challenges in the global economy. although the u.s. economy is recovering from the worst recession in decades, unemployment remains high and consumer confidence remains low, resulting in reduced numbers of insured patients and the deferral of elective reconstructive procedures. global economic conditions, particularly in europe, our second-largest operating segment, remain uncertain. we believe that european austerity measures implemented to address the ongoing financial crisis contributed to decreased healthcare utilization and increased pricing pressure for some of our products. we cannot assure you that challenges in the global economy will not continue to negatively impact procedure volumes, average selling prices and reimbursement rates from third-party payors, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we have experienced delays in the collection of receivables from hospitals in certain countries that have national healthcare systems, including certain regions in spain, italy, greece and portugal, which are the countries most directly affected by the euro zone crisis. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. continuing high unemployment in the u.s., a worsening of the european financial crisis or a failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of our european receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as previously reported, we temporarily suspended the marketing and distribution of our durom &reg; acetabular component ( durom cup) in the u.s. in july 2008. subsequently, a number of product liability lawsuits and other claims have been asserted against us. we have settled some of these claims and the others are still pending. additional claims may be asserted in the future. we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues. the u.s. patent and trademark office and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. future changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. these measures may prove to be ineffective and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. pending and future intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. if someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. if we were to lose such litigation involving material intellectual property rights, such loss could result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required, under current u.s. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect the integrity of our information systems and data, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new 13 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or our proprietary information. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit intellectual property rights. these activities involve risks, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not recognize expected cost savings or the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or strategic alliances; our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations to us or the joint venture; and the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible with ours. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2012, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2013 through june 2015. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2012 were $1,548.8 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2012 were $303.9 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2012 were euro:usd 1.33, swiss franc:usd 1.08, usd:japanese yen 78.27, british pound:usd 1.58, usd:canadian dollar 1.01, australian dollar:usd 0.96, usd:korean won 1,169, usd:swedish krona 6.85, usd:czech koruna 18.66, usd:thai baht 32.09, usd:taiwan dollar 29.01, usd:south african rand 8.72, usd:russian ruble 33.42 and usd:indian ruppee 54.58. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2012 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2016, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): currency average amount euro $ 68.2 swiss franc 30.0 japanese yen 35.1 british pound 14.5 canadian dollar 11.4 australian dollar 12.5 korean won 3.2 swedish krona 3.0 czech koruna 0.6 thai baht 1.2 taiwan dollars 2.1 south african rand 0.7 russian rubles 2.1 indian rupees 1.0 any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. 28 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report we had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of $2,494.5 million at december 31, 2012, primarily in euros and japanese yen. $1,320.9 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2012 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. we also have short-term and long-term investments in highly-rated corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, u.s. government treasury funds, municipal bonds, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations and our cash and cash equivalents. presently, all of our debt outstanding under the senior credit facility bears interest at short-term variable rates. in 2010, we entered into interest rate swap agreements with a consolidated notional amount of $250 million that hedge a portion of our $500 million 4.625 percent senior notes due november 30, 2019. on the interest rate swap agreements outstanding as of december 31, 2012, we receive a fixed interest rate of 4.625 percent and we pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 133 basis points. the interest rate swap agreements are to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. the objective of the instruments is to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on cash and cash equivalents. these derivative instruments are designated as fair value hedges under u.s. gaap. changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in earnings and are offset by gains or losses on the underlying debt instrument. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2012, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on net interest expense. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, derivative instruments, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly-rated financial institutions or highly-rated debt securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions or counterparties issuing the debt security fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. 29 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report the ongoing financial crisis in the euro zone continues to impact the indirect credit exposure we have to those governments through their public hospitals. we have experienced an increasing number of days sales outstanding in some european countries compared to levels in 2010. as of december 31, 2012, in greece, italy, portugal and spain, countries that have been widely recognized as presenting the highest risk, our gross short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable combined were $209.2 million. with allowances for doubtful accounts of $7.8 million recorded in those countries, the net balance was $201.4 million, representing 24 percent of our total consolidated short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable balance, net. italy and spain account for $191.6 million of that net amount. we are actively monitoring the situations in these countries. we maintain contact with these customers on a regular basis. we continue to receive payments, albeit at a slower rate than in the past. we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate in these countries, as ultimately we believe the governments in these countries will be able to pay. as evidence of this, in spain we received significant payments in july 2012, to settle certain past due accounts receivable. to the extent these governments ability to fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 30 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2012. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2012, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2012, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 31 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2012, the audit committee of our board of directors approved the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform certain non-audit services related to certain tax matters. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the exchange act. 66 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information required by this item regarding our directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled proposal no. 1: election of directors in our definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on may 7, 2013 (the 2013 proxy statement ). information about our audit committee is incorporated by reference from the section entitled committees of the board in our 2013 proxy statement. information regarding the procedures by which stockholders may recommend nominees to the board of directors is incorporated by reference from the section entitled corporate governance nominations for directors in our 2013 proxy statement. information regarding our executive officers is set forth in item 1 of part i of this report under the caption executive officers. information about compliance with section 16(a) of the exchange act is incorporated by reference from the section entitled section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance in our 2013 proxy statement. we have adopted the zimmer code of ethics for chief executive officer and senior financial officers (the finance code of ethics ), a code of ethics that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and corporate controller, and other finance organization senior employees. the finance code of ethics is publicly available in the investor relations section of our website, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmer.com or directly at http://investor.zimmer.com. if we make any substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or chief accounting officer and corporate controller, we will disclose the nature of that amendment in the investor relations section of our website. item 11. executive compensation information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled committees of the board , compensation of directors and executive compensation in our 2013 proxy statement. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled security ownership of certain beneficial owners, security ownership of directors and executive officers and equity compensation plan information in our 2013 proxy statement. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled corporate governance certain relationships and related person transactions and corporate governance director independence in our 2013 proxy statement. item 14. principal accounting fees and services information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the sections entitled audit and non-audit fees and audit committee pre-approval of services of independent registered public accounting firm in proposal no. 3 of our 2013 proxy statement. 67 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2012 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 9 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their 9 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the u.s. healthcare reform legislation includes provisions that may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the affordable care act), was signed into law in march 2010 and mandates health insurance coverage and other healthcare reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 to 2018. as part of the affordable care act, in january 2013 we began paying a 2.3 percent medical device excise tax on the vast majority of our u.s sales. we continue to identify ways to reduce spending in other areas to offset the earnings impact due to the tax. we are not able to pass along the cost of the tax to hospitals, which continue to face cuts to their medicare reimbursement under the affordable care act and other legislation. nor are we able to offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from the expansion of health insurance coverage because of the demographics of the current uninsured population. the medical device excise tax regulations and subsequent guidance from the u.s. department of treasury have not lessened the burden of complying with the excise tax statute. in addition, without the implementation of proper safeguards, the affordable care act medicare payment reforms, such as accountable care organizations and bundled payments, could provide additional incentives for healthcare providers to reduce spending on some of our medical device products and reduce utilization of hospital procedures that use our products. accordingly, while it is still too early to fully understand and predict the full impact of the affordable care act on our business, ongoing implementation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations. compliance with the fda requirements, including the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda, which may result in observations on form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates to foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal 10 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda may also recommend prosecution to the u.s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. if we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our industry is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal physician payments sunshine act and similar state and foreign laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. the conflict minerals rule may adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, may increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and harm our reputation. we are subject to the sec rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. u.s. public companies that manufacture products that contain conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of their products must annually disclose whether the minerals in their products originated from one of these countries and the procedures employed to determine the sourcing of such minerals. these requirements became effective for the 2013 calendar year, with initial disclosure reports due in may 2014. we are incurring costs to comply with this rule, including for diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products. we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from our suppliers or that we will be able to determine that all of our products are conflict-free. as a result, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origin of all conflict minerals used in our products. this rule also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived almost 50 percent of our net sales in 2013 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds representing earnings of foreign subsidiaries may significantly impact our effective tax rates. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on 11 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. challenging global economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. since 2008, the global economy has been impacted by an ongoing series of financial crises. although the u.s. economy is recovering, unemployment remains high and consumer confidence remains low, resulting in reduced numbers of insured patients and the deferral of elective reconstructive procedures. global economic conditions, particularly in europe, our second-largest operating segment, remain uncertain. we believe that european austerity measures implemented to address the ongoing financial crisis contributed to decreased healthcare utilization and increased pricing pressure for some of our products. we cannot assure you that challenges in the global economy will not continue to negatively impact procedure volumes, average selling prices and reimbursement rates from third-party payors, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we have experienced delays in the collection of receivables from hospitals in certain countries that have national healthcare systems, including certain regions in spain, italy, greece and portugal, which are the countries most directly affected by the euro zone crisis. repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. further, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability of the euro as a single currency. continuing high unemployment in the u.s., a worsening of the european financial situation or a failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of our european receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as previously reported, we temporarily suspended the marketing and distribution of our durom &reg; acetabular component ( durom cup) in the u.s. in july 2008. subsequently, a number of product liability lawsuits and other claims have been asserted against us. we have settled some of these claims and the others are still pending. additional claims may be asserted in the future. we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. at any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. we rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently 12 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required, under current u.s. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect the integrity of our information systems and data, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or our proprietary information. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that systems issues will not arise in the future. 13 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. we intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit intellectual property rights. these activities involve risks, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not recognize expected cost savings or the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or strategic alliances; our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations to us or the joint venture; and the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible with ours. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2013, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2014 through june 2016. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2013 were $1,574.6 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2013 were $353.3 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2013 were euro:usd 1.32, swiss franc:usd 1.09, usd:japanese yen 88.13, british pound:usd 1.56, usd:canadian dollar 1.04, australian dollar:usd 0.94, usd:korean won 1,154, usd:swedish krona 6.78, usd:czech koruna 19.41, usd:thai baht 32.06, usd:taiwan dollar 29.22, usd:south african rand 10.05, usd:russian ruble 34.47 and usd:indian ruppee 62.58. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts 28 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report outstanding at december 31, 2013 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2016, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): currency average amount euro $ 69.1 swiss franc 35.9 japanese yen 33.6 british pound 14.6 canadian dollar 12.1 australian dollar 13.5 korean won 4.1 swedish krona 3.2 czech koruna 0.5 thai baht 1.2 taiwan dollars 2.4 south african rand 0.8 russian rubles 2.2 indian rupees 0.9 any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we have net assets in legal entities with non-u.s. dollar functional currencies of $2,295.6 million at december 31, 2013, primarily in euros, japanese yen and australian dollars. $1,354.3 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2013 relates to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. we also have short-term and long-term investments in highly-rated corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, u.s. government treasury funds, municipal bonds, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations and our cash and cash equivalents. we have multiple fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements that we have designated as fair value hedges of the fixed interest rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. the total notional amounts are $250 million and $300 million for the senior notes due 2019 and 2021, respectively. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2019, we receive a fixed interest rate of 4.625 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 133 basis points. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2021, we receive a fixed interest rate of 3.375 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 99 basis points. the interest rate swap agreements are intended to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. the objective of the instruments is to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on cash and cash equivalents. these derivative instruments are designated as fair value hedges under gaap. changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in earnings and are offset by gains or losses on the underlying debt instrument. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2013, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the principal amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on net interest expense. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash 29 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, derivative instruments, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly-rated financial institutions or highly-rated debt securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions or counterparties issuing the debt security fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. the ongoing financial uncertainties in the euro zone impact the indirect credit exposure we have to those governments through their public hospitals. as of december 31, 2013, in greece, italy, portugal and spain, countries that have been widely recognized as presenting the highest risk, our gross short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable combined were $226.4 million. with allowances for doubtful accounts of $9.5 million recorded in those countries, the net balance was $216.9 million, representing 24 percent of our total consolidated short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable balance, net. italy and spain accounted for $209.7 million of that net amount. we are actively monitoring the situations in these countries. we maintain contact with customers in these countries on a regular basis. we continue to receive payments, albeit at a slower rate than in the past. we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate in these countries, as ultimately we believe the governments in these countries will be able to pay. to the extent the respective governments ability to fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 30 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2013. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework (1992) . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2013, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2013, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 31 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. pricewaterhousecoopers llp chicago, illinois february 28, 2014 33 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 net sales $4,623.4 $ 4,471.7 $ 4,451.8 cost of products sold 1,286.1 1,125.2 1,122.0 gross profit 3,337.3 3,346.5 3,329.8 research and development 204.2 225.6 238.4 selling, general and administrative 1,833.8 1,807.1 1,834.3 certain claims (note 19) 47.0 15.0 157.8 goodwill impairment (note 8) 96.0 special items (note 2) 216.7 155.4 75.2 operating expenses 2,301.7 2,299.1 2,305.7 operating profit 1,035.6 1,047.4 1,024.1 interest income 15.6 15.6 10.1 interest expense (70.1 ) (72.9 ) (55.3 ) earnings before income taxes 981.1 990.1 978.9 provision for income taxes 221.9 237.2 218.9 net earnings 759.2 752.9 760.0 less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1.8 ) (2.1 ) (0.8 ) net earnings of zimmer holdings, inc. $ 761.0 $ 755.0 $ 760.8 earnings per common share basic $ 4.49 $ 4.32 $ 4.05 earnings per common share diluted $ 4.43 $ 4.29 $ 4.03 weighted average common shares outstanding basic 169.6 174.9 187.6 diluted 171.8 176.0 188.7 cash dividends declared per common share $0.80 $0.54 $ 0.18 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 34 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 net earnings $ 759.2 $ 752.9 $ 760.0 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency cumulative translation adjustments (44.4 ) 46.1 4.6 unrealized cash flow hedge gains/(losses), net of tax 33.4 10.9 (30.6 ) reclassification adjustments on cash flow hedges, net of tax (4.4 ) 3.3 24.5 unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, net of tax 0.1 0.4 0.2 adjustments to prior service cost and unrecognized actuarial assumptions, net of tax 38.5 11.8 (48.3 ) total other comprehensive income (loss) 23.2 72.5 (49.6 ) comprehensive income 782.4 825.4 710.4 comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (2.0 ) (2.2 ) (0.9 ) comprehensive income attributable to zimmer holdings, inc. $ 784.4 $ 827.6 $ 711.3 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 35 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report consolidated balance sheets (in millions) as of december 31, 2013 2012 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,080.6 $ 884.3 short-term investments 727.0 671.6 accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts 936.6 884.6 inventories 1,074.5 995.3 prepaid expenses and other current assets 107.1 76.3 deferred income taxes 271.9 196.6 total current assets 4,197.7 3,708.7 property, plant and equipment, net 1,224.7 1,210.7 goodwill 2,611.2 2,571.8 intangible assets, net 707.7 740.7 other assets 839.3 780.5 total assets $ 9,580.6 $ 9,012.4 liabilities and stockholders equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 146.3 $ 184.1 income taxes 221.2 22.8 short-term debt 0.5 100.1 other current liabilities 663.6 559.0 total current liabilities 1,031.6 866.0 other long-term liabilities 576.6 559.3 long-term debt 1,672.3 1,720.8 total liabilities 3,280.5 3,146.1 commitments and contingencies (note 19) stockholders equity: common stock, $0.01 par value, one billion shares authorized, 264.3 million (257.1 million in 2012) issued 2.6 2.6 paid-in capital 4,000.6 3,500.6 retained earnings 7,712.7 7,085.9 accumulated other comprehensive income 367.1 343.9 treasury stock, 94.5 million shares (85.5 million shares in 2012) (5,785.7 ) (5,072.1 ) total zimmer holdings, inc. stockholders equity 6,297.3 5,860.9 noncontrolling interest 2.8 5.4 total stockholders equity 6,300.1 5,866.3 total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 9,580.6 $ 9,012.4 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 36 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of stockholders equity (in millions) zimmer holdings, inc. stockholders accumulated other total common shares paid-in retained comprehensive treasury shares noncontrolling stockholders number amount capital earnings income number amount interest equity balance january 1, 2011 254.6 $ 2.5 $ 3,293.5 $ 5,699.4 $ 321.0 (59.0 ) $ (3,545.1 ) $ $ 5,771.3 net earnings 760.8 (0.8 ) 760.0 other comprehensive loss (49.6 ) (0.1 ) (49.7 ) business combination with a noncontrolling interest 8.5 8.5 cash dividends declared (32.1 ) (32.1 ) stock compensation plans, including tax benefits 1.3 105.7 (1.3 ) 2.4 106.8 share repurchases (18.9 ) (1,050.0 ) (1,050.0 ) balance december 31, 2011 255.9 2.5 3,399.2 6,426.8 271.4 (77.9 ) (4,592.7 ) 7.6 5,514.8 net earnings 755.0 (2.1 ) 752.9 other comprehensive income 72.5 (0.1 ) 72.4 cash dividends declared (93.3 ) (93.3 ) stock compensation plans, including tax benefits 1.2 0.1 101.4 (2.6 ) 0.1 6.2 105.1 share repurchases (7.7 ) (485.6 ) (485.6 ) balance december 31, 2012 257.1 2.6 3,500.6 7,085.9 343.9 (85.5 ) (5,072.1 ) 5.4 5,866.3 net earnings 761.0 (1.8 ) 759.2 other comprehensive income 23.2 (0.2 ) 23.0 purchase of additional shares from noncontrolling interest (1.1 ) (0.6 ) (1.7 ) cash dividends declared (135.4 ) (135.4 ) stock compensation plans, including tax benefits 7.2 501.1 1.2 0.1 5.4 507.7 share repurchases (9.1 ) (719.0 ) (719.0 ) balance december 31, 2013 264.3 $ 2.6 $ 4,000.6 $ 7,712.7 $ 367.1 (94.5 ) $ (5,785.7 ) $ 2.8 $ 6,300.1 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 37 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities: net earnings $ 759.2 $ 752.9 $ 760.0 adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation and amortization 358.5 363.1 359.9 goodwill impairment 96.0 share-based compensation 48.5 55.0 60.5 income tax benefit from stock option exercises 38.4 11.0 12.9 excess income tax benefit from stock option exercises (8.6 ) (2.7 ) (5.0 ) inventory step-up 8.0 4.8 11.4 deferred income tax provision (126.2 ) (64.8 ) (19.7 ) changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquired assets and liabilities income taxes payable 96.8 59.2 14.6 receivables (74.3 ) (45.5 ) (63.2 ) inventories (128.4 ) (67.5 ) 7.2 accounts payable and accrued liabilities 38.3 47.8 20.0 other assets and liabilities (47.1 ) (57.4 ) 18.3 net cash provided by operating activities 963.1 1,151.9 1,176.9 cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities: additions to instruments (192.9 ) (148.9 ) (155.4 ) additions to other property, plant and equipment (100.0 ) (114.7 ) (113.8 ) purchases of investments (732.7 ) (1,130.1 ) (662.1 ) sales of investments 830.8 878.5 394.8 business combination investments (74.2 ) (59.0 ) (56.8 ) investments in other assets (13.5 ) (17.9 ) (31.1 ) net cash used in investing activities (282.5 ) (592.1 ) (624.4 ) cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities: proceeds from issuance of notes 549.3 net proceeds (payments) under revolving credit facilities (97.5 ) (50.1 ) 0.5 proceeds from term loans 147.3 dividends paid to stockholders (132.4 ) (94.4 ) debt issuance costs (3.3 ) (4.0 ) proceeds from employee stock compensation plans 474.8 46.9 43.4 excess income tax benefit from stock option exercises 8.6 2.7 5.0 purchase of additional shares from noncontrolling interest (1.8 ) repurchase of common stock (719.0 ) (485.6 ) (1,050.0 ) net cash used in financing activities (467.3 ) (436.5 ) (455.8 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (17.0 ) (7.3 ) 2.7 increase in cash and cash equivalents 196.3 116.0 99.4 cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 884.3 768.3 668.9 cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 1,080.6 $ 884.3 $ 768.3 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 38 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements 1. business we design, develop, manufacture and market orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, biologics, dental implants and related surgical products. we also provide other healthcare related services. orthopaedic reconstructive devices restore function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. dental reconstructive implants restore function and aesthetics in patients who have lost teeth due to trauma or disease. spinal devices are utilized by orthopaedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in the treatment of degenerative diseases, deformities and trauma in all regions of the spine. trauma products are devices used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the body natural healing process. our related surgical products include surgical supplies and instruments designed to aid in orthopaedic surgical procedures and post-operation rehabilitation. we have operations in more than 25 countries and market our products in more than 100 countries. we operate in a single industry but have three reportable geographic segments, the americas, europe and asia pacific. the words we, us, our and similar words refer to zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries. zimmer holdings refers to the parent company only. 2. significant accounting policies basis of presentation the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of zimmer holdings and its subsidiaries in which it holds a controlling financial interest. all significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. the consolidated financial statements for some of our international subsidiaries are for an annual period that ended on december 25, 2013, 2012 and 2011. certain amounts in the 2012 and 2011 consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2013 presentation. use of estimates the consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. foreign currency translation the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars using period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates for operating results. unrealized translation gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. when a transaction is denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary functional currency, we recognize a transaction gain or loss when the transaction is settled. foreign currency transaction gains and losses included in net earnings for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were not significant. revenue recognition we sell product through three principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, referred to as direct channel accounts; 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers; and 3) directly to dental practices and dental laboratories. the direct channel accounts represented approximately 80 percent of our net sales in 2013. through this channel, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers so that products are available when needed for surgical procedures. no revenue is recognized upon the placement of inventory into consignment as we retain title and maintain the inventory on our balance sheet. upon implantation, we issue an invoice and revenue is recognized. pricing for products is generally predetermined by contracts with customers, agents acting on behalf of customer groups or by government regulatory bodies, depending on the market. price discounts under group purchasing contracts are generally linked to volume of implant purchases by customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. at negotiated thresholds within a contract buying period, price discounts may increase. sales to stocking distributors, healthcare dealers, dental practices and dental laboratories accounted for approximately 20 percent of our net sales in 2013. with these types of sales, revenue is recognized when title to product passes, either upon shipment of the product or in some cases upon implantation of the product. product is generally sold at contractually fixed prices for specified periods. payment terms vary by customer, but are typically less than 90 days. if sales incentives are earned by a customer for purchasing a specified amount of our product, we estimate whether such incentives will be achieved and, if so, recognize these incentives as a reduction in revenue in the same period the underlying revenue transaction is recognized. occasionally products are returned and, accordingly, we maintain an estimated sales return reserve that is recorded as a reduction in revenue. product returns were not significant for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis and excluded from revenues. shipping and handling amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling of products are reflected in net sales and are not significant. expenses incurred related to shipping and handling of products are reflected in selling, general and administrative and were $163.6 million, $139.5 million and $142.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. research and development we expense all research and development costs as incurred. research and development costs include salaries, prototypes, depreciation of equipment used in research and development, consultant fees and service 39 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) fees paid to collaborative partners. where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved. litigation we record a liability for contingent losses, including future legal costs, settlements and judgments, when we consider it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. special items we recognize expenses resulting directly from our business combinations, employee termination benefits, certain r&amp;d agreements, certain contract terminations, consulting and professional fees and asset impairment or loss on disposal charges connected with global restructuring, operational and quality excellence initiatives, and other items as special items in our consolidated statement of earnings. special items included (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 impairment/loss on disposal of assets $ 10.9 $ 14.6 $ 8.4 consulting and professional fees 99.1 90.1 26.0 employee severance and retention, including share-based compensation acceleration 14.2 8.2 23.1 dedicated project personnel 34.0 15.1 3.2 certain r&amp;d agreements 0.8 relocated facilities 3.6 1.8 distributor acquisitions 0.4 0.8 2.0 certain litigation matters 26.9 13.7 0.1 contract terminations 3.9 6.6 6.3 contingent consideration adjustments 9.0 (2.8 ) accelerated software amortization 6.0 4.5 other 7.9 2.8 6.1 special items $ 216.7 $ 155.4 $ 75.2 impairment/ loss on disposal of assets relates to impairment of intangible assets that were acquired in business combinations or impairment of or a loss on the disposal of other assets. consulting and professional fees relate to third-party consulting, professional fees and contract labor related to our quality and operational excellence initiatives, third-party consulting fees related to certain information system implementations, third-party integration consulting performed in a variety of areas such as tax, compliance, logistics and human resources for our business combinations, third-party fees related to severance and termination benefits matters and legal fees related to certain product liability matters. our quality and operational excellence initiatives are company-wide and include improvements in quality, distribution, sourcing, manufacturing and information technology, among other areas. in 2013, 2012 and 2011, we eliminated positions as we reduced management layers, restructured certain areas, announced closures of certain facilities, and commenced initiatives to focus on business opportunities that best support our strategic priorities. in 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 170, 400 and 500 positions, respectively, from across the globe were affected by these actions. as a result of these changes in our work force and headcount reductions in connection with acquisitions, we incurred expenses related to severance benefits, redundant salaries as we worked through transition periods, share-based compensation acceleration and other employee termination-related costs. the majority of these termination benefits were provided in accordance with our existing or local government policies and are considered ongoing benefits. these costs were accrued when they became probable and estimable and were recorded as part of other current liabilities. the majority of these costs were paid during the year they were incurred. dedicated project personnel expenses include the salary, benefits, travel expenses and other costs directly associated with employees who are 100 percent dedicated to our operational and quality excellence initiatives or integration of acquired businesses. certain r&amp;d agreements relate to agreements with upfront payments to obtain intellectual property to be used in r&amp;d projects that have no alternative future use in other projects. relocated facilities expenses are the moving costs and the lease expenses incurred during the relocation period in connection with relocating certain facilities. over the past few years we have acquired a number of u.s. and foreign-based distributors. we have incurred various costs related to the consummation and integration of those businesses. certain litigation matters relate to costs and adjustments recognized during the year for the estimated or actual settlement of various legal matters, including royalty disputes, patent litigation matters, commercial litigation matters and matters arising from our acquisitions of certain competitive distributorships in prior years. contract termination costs relate to terminated agreements in connection with the integration of acquired companies and changes to our distribution model as part of business restructuring and operational excellence initiatives. the terminated contracts primarily relate to sales agents and distribution agreements. contingent consideration adjustments represent the changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations to be paid to the prior owners of acquired businesses. accelerated software amortization is the incremental amortization resulting from a reduction in the estimated life of certain software. in 2012, we approved a plan to replace certain software. as a result, the estimated economic useful life of the existing software was decreased to represent the period of time expected to implement replacement software. as a result, the amortization from the shortened life of this software is substantially higher than the previous amortization being recognized. cash and cash equivalents we consider all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. the carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents are valued at cost, which approximates their fair value. 40 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) investments we invest our excess cash and cash equivalents in debt securities. our investments include corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit, and are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. available-for-sale debt securities are recorded at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. investments with a contractual maturity of less than one year are classified as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheet, or in other non-current assets if the contractual maturity is greater than one year. changes in fair value for available-for-sale securities are recorded, net of taxes, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet. we review our investments for other-than-temporary impairment at each reporting period. if an unrealized loss for any investment is considered to be other-than-temporary, the loss will be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings in the period the determination is made. see note 7 for more information regarding our investments. accounts receivable accounts receivable consists of trade and other miscellaneous receivables. we grant credit to customers in the normal course of business and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses. we determine the allowance for doubtful accounts by geographic market and take into consideration historical credit experience, creditworthiness of the customer and other pertinent information. we make concerted efforts to collect all accounts receivable, but sometimes we have to write-off the account against the allowance when we determine the account is uncollectible. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $22.7 million and $22.8 million as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in first-out basis. property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of ten to forty years for buildings and improvements and three to eight years for machinery and equipment. maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. we review property, plant and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. an impairment loss would be recognized when estimated future undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset are less than its carrying amount. an impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its fair value. software costs we capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use when both the preliminary project stage is completed and it is probable that the software will be used as intended. capitalized software costs generally include external direct costs of materials and services utilized in developing or obtaining computer software and compensation and related benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software project. capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line or weighted average estimated user basis when the software is ready for its intended use over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate three to fifteen years. instruments instruments are hand-held devices used by surgeons during total joint replacement and other surgical procedures. instruments are recognized as long-lived assets and are included in property, plant and equipment. undeployed instruments are carried at cost or realizable value. instruments in the field are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on average estimated useful lives, determined principally in reference to associated product life cycles, primarily five years. we review instruments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an instrument may not be recoverable. depreciation of instruments is recognized as selling, general and administrative expense. goodwill goodwill is not amortized but is subject to annual impairment tests. goodwill has been assigned to reporting units. we perform annual impairment tests by either comparing a reporting unit estimated fair value to its carrying amount or doing a qualitative assessment of a reporting unit fair value from the last quantitative assessment to determine if there is potential impairment. we may do a qualitative assessment when the results of the previous quantitative test indicated the reporting unit estimated fair value was significantly in excess of the carrying value of its net assets and we do not believe there have been significant changes in the reporting unit operations that would significantly decrease its estimated fair value or significantly increase its net assets. if a quantitative assessment is performed, the fair value of the reporting unit and the implied fair value of goodwill are determined based upon a discounted cash flow analysis and/or use of a market approach by looking at market values of comparable companies. significant assumptions are incorporated into our discounted cash flow analyses such as estimated growth rates and risk-adjusted discount rates. we perform this test in the fourth quarter of the year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the reporting unit assets may not be recoverable. if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit goodwill. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $96.0 million related to our u.s. spine reporting unit. we did not record a goodwill impairment charge during the year ended december 31, 2013. see notes 8 and 9 for more information regarding goodwill and goodwill impairment. 41 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) intangible assets intangible assets are initially measured at their fair value. we have determined the fair value of our intangible assets either by the fair value of the consideration exchanged for the intangible asset or the estimated after-tax discounted cash flows expected to be generated from the intangible asset. intangible assets with an indefinite life, including certain trademarks and trade names, are not amortized. indefinite life intangible assets are assessed annually to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite life. intangible assets with a finite life, including core and developed technology, certain trademarks and trade names, customer-related intangibles, intellectual property rights and patents and licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life, ranging from less than one year to 40 years. intangible assets with a finite life are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. intangible assets with an indefinite life are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. the amount of the impairment loss to be recorded would be determined based upon the excess of the asset carrying value over its fair value. the fair values of indefinite lived intangible assets are determined based upon a discounted cash flow analysis using the relief from royalty method or a qualitative assessment may be performed for any changes to the asset fair value from the last quantitative assessment. the relief from royalty method estimates the cost savings associated with owning, rather than licensing, assets. significant assumptions are incorporated into these discounted cash flow analyses such as estimated growth rates, royalty rates and risk-adjusted discount rates. we may do a qualitative assessment when the results of the previous quantitative test indicated that the asset fair value was significantly in excess of its carrying value. in determining the useful lives of intangible assets, we consider the expected use of the assets and the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, anticipated technological advances, changes in surgical techniques, market influences and other economic factors. for technology-based intangible assets, we consider the expected life cycles of products, absent unforeseen technological advances, which incorporate the corresponding technology. trademarks and trade names that do not have a wasting characteristic (i.e., there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which limit the useful life) are assigned an indefinite life. trademarks and trade names that are related to products expected to be phased out are assigned lives consistent with the period in which the products bearing each brand are expected to be sold. for customer relationship intangible assets, we assign useful lives based upon historical levels of customer attrition. intellectual property rights are assigned useful lives that approximate the contractual life of any related patent or the period for which we maintain exclusivity over the intellectual property. income taxes we account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. the effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. we reduce our deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. in making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operations. in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred income tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, we would make an adjustment to the valuation allowance which would reduce the provision for income taxes. federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the u.s. we operate on a global basis and are subject to numerous and complex tax laws and regulations. our income tax filings are regularly under audit in multiple federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. income tax audits may require an extended period of time to reach resolution and may result in significant income tax adjustments when interpretation of tax laws or allocation of company profits is disputed. because income tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, we record accruals representing management best estimate of the probable resolution of these matters. to the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome. derivative financial instruments we measure all derivative instruments at fair value and report them on our consolidated balance sheet as assets or liabilities. we maintain written policies and procedures that permit, under appropriate circumstances and subject to proper authorization, the use of derivative financial instruments solely for hedging purposes. the use of derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes is prohibited by our policy. see note 13 for more information regarding our derivative and hedging activities. other comprehensive income other comprehensive income refers to revenues, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from net earnings as these amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to stockholders equity. other comprehensive income is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments, 42 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and amortization of prior service costs and unrecognized gains and losses in actuarial assumptions. treasury stock we account for repurchases of common stock under the cost method and present treasury stock as a reduction of stockholders equity. we reissue common stock held in treasury only for limited purposes. noncontrolling interest in 2011, we made an investment in a company in which we acquired a controlling financial interest, but not 100 percent of the equity. in 2013, we purchased additional shares of the company from the minority shareholders. further information related to the noncontrolling interests of that investment has not been provided as it is not significant to our consolidated financial statements. accounting pronouncements effective january 1, 2013, we adopted the fasb accounting standard updates (asus) requiring reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (oci) and balance sheet offsetting between derivative assets and liabilities. these asus only change financial statement disclosure requirements and therefore do not impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see note 12 for disclosures relating to oci. see note 13 for disclosures relating to balance sheet offsetting. there are no other recently issued accounting pronouncements that we have not yet adopted that are expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 3. share-based compensation our share-based payments primarily consist of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units (rsus), and an employee stock purchase plan. share-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 stock options $ 24.7 $ 32.4 $ 41.7 rsus and other 23.8 22.6 18.8 total expense, pre-tax 48.5 55.0 60.5 tax benefit related to awards (15.6 ) (16.6 ) (17.8 ) total expense, net of tax $ 32.9 $ 38.4 $ 42.7 share-based compensation cost capitalized as part of inventory for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $4.1 million, $6.1 million, and $8.8 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately $2.4 million and $3.3 million of capitalized costs remained in finished goods inventory. stock options we had two equity compensation plans in effect at december 31, 2013: the 2009 stock incentive plan (2009 plan) and the stock plan for non-employee directors. the 2009 plan succeeded the 2006 stock incentive plan (2006 plan) and the teamshare stock option plan (teamshare plan). no further awards have been granted under the 2006 plan or under the teamshare plan since may 2009, and shares remaining available for grant under those plans have been merged into the 2009 plan. vested and unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock and rsus previously granted under the 2006 plan, the teamshare plan and another prior plan, the 2001 stock incentive plan, remained outstanding as of december 31, 2013. we have reserved the maximum number of shares of common stock available for award under the terms of each of these plans. we have registered 57.9 million shares of common stock under these plans. the 2009 plan provides for the grant of nonqualified stock options and incentive stock options, long-term performance awards in the form of performance shares or units, restricted stock, rsus and stock appreciation rights. the compensation and management development committee of the board of directors determines the grant date for annual grants under our equity compensation plans. the date for annual grants under the 2009 plan to our executive officers is expected to occur in the first quarter of each year following the earnings announcements for the previous quarter and full year. the stock plan for non-employee directors provides for awards of stock options, restricted stock and rsus to non-employee directors. it has been our practice to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options from previously unissued shares, except in limited circumstances where they are issued from treasury stock. the total number of awards which may be granted in a given year and/or over the life of the plan under each of our equity compensation plans is limited. at december 31, 2013, an aggregate of 10.4 million shares were available for future grants and awards under these plans. stock options granted to date under our plans generally vest over four years and generally have a maximum contractual life of 10 years. as established under our equity compensation plans, vesting may accelerate upon retirement after the first anniversary date of the award if certain criteria are met. we recognize expense related to stock options on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, less awards expected to be forfeited using estimated forfeiture rates. due to the accelerated retirement provisions, the requisite service period of our stock options range from one to four years. stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of our common stock on the date of grant, except in limited circumstances where local law may dictate otherwise. 43 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) a summary of stock option activity for the year ended december 31, 2013 is as follows (options in thousands): stock options weighted average exercise price weighted average remaining contractual life intrinsic value (in millions) outstanding at january 1, 2013 16,638 $ 68.74 options granted 1,603 73.40 options exercised (7,008 ) 67.67 options forfeited (304 ) 65.68 options expired (188 ) 76.09 outstanding at december 31, 2013 10,741 $ 70.06 5.0 $ 248.4 vested or expected to vest as of december 31, 2013 10,329 $ 70.12 4.9 $ 238.3 exercisable at december 31, 2013 7,375 $ 71.44 3.5 $ 160.4 we use a black-scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of our stock options. for stock options granted in 2012 and 2011, expected volatility was derived from the implied volatility of traded options on our stock that were actively traded around the grant date of the stock options with exercise prices similar to the stock options and maturities of over one year. in 2013, we used a combination of historical volatility and implied volatility because the traded options that were actively traded around the grant date of our stock options did not have maturities of over one year. the expected term of the stock options has been derived from historical employee exercise behavior. the risk-free interest rate was determined using the implied yield currently available for zero-coupon u.s. government issues with a remaining term approximating the expected life of the options. we began paying dividends in 2012. accordingly, prior to 2012 we assumed no dividend yield. starting in 2012, the dividend yield was determined by using an estimated annual dividend and dividing it by the market price of our stock on the grant date. the following table presents information regarding the weighted average fair value for stock options granted, the assumptions used to determine fair value, and the intrinsic value of options exercised in the indicated year: for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 dividend yield 1.1 % 1.1 % % volatility 24.5 % 25.6 % 26.1 % risk-free interest rate 1.1 % 1.5 % 2.2 % expected life (years) 6.1 6.1 6.1 weighted average fair value of options granted $ 16.33 $ 15.40 $ 18.33 intrinsic value of options exercised (in millions) $ 97.9 $ 17.1 $ 27.5 as of december 31, 2013, there was $33.5 million of unrecognized share-based payment expense related to nonvested stock options granted under our plans. that expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.7 years. rsus we have awarded rsus to our employees. the terms of the awards have been three to five years. some of the awards have only service conditions while some have performance and market conditions as well. the service condition awards vest ratably on the anniversary date of the award. the awards that have performance and market conditions vest all at once on the third anniversary date. future service conditions may be waived if an employee retires after the first anniversary date of the award, but performance and market conditions continue to apply. accordingly, the requisite service period used for share-based payment expense on our rsus range from one to five years. 44 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) a summary of nonvested rsu activity for the year ended december 31, 2013 is as follows (rsus in thousands): rsus weighted average grant date fair value outstanding at january 1, 2013 1,445 $ 61.11 granted 581 74.22 vested (434 ) 55.80 forfeited (138 ) 65.03 outstanding at december 31, 2013 1,454 67.42 for the rsus with service conditions only, the fair value of the awards was determined based upon the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. for the rsus with market conditions, a monte carlo valuation technique was used to simulate the market conditions of the awards. the outcome of the simulation was used to determine the fair value of the awards. we are required to estimate the number of rsus that will vest and recognize share-based payment expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. as of december 31, 2013, we estimate that approximately 875,900 outstanding rsus will vest. if our estimate were to change in the future, the cumulative effect of the change in estimate will be recorded in that period. based upon the number of rsus that we expect to vest, the unrecognized share-based payment expense as of december 31, 2013 was $34.0 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years. the fair value of rsus vesting during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 based upon our stock price on the date of vesting was $32.5 million, $18.9 million and $11.8 million, respectively. 4. inventories inventories consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 2012 finished goods $ 817.0 $ 786.3 work in progress 77.4 52.3 raw materials 180.1 156.7 inventories $ 1,074.5 $ 995.3 amounts charged to the consolidated statement of earnings for excess and obsolete inventory in the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $112.0 million, $55.1 million and $47.6 million, respectively. the increase in the 2013 period primarily resulted from our decision to discontinue certain products. 5. property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 2012 land $ 21.7 $ 22.1 building and equipment 1,353.1 1,232.8 capitalized software costs 272.6 241.8 instruments 1,610.6 1,579.8 construction in progress 58.2 117.8 3,316.2 3,194.3 accumulated depreciation (2,091.5 ) (1,983.6 ) property, plant and equipment, net $ 1,224.7 $ 1,210.7 depreciation expense was $262.6 million, $266.0 million and $266.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 6. acquisitions we made a number of business acquisitions during the years 2013, 2012 and 2011. in may 2013, we acquired the business assets of knee creations, llc (knee creations). the knee creations acquisition enhances our product portfolio of early intervention knee treatments. in june 2013, we acquired normed medizin-technik gmbh (normed). the normed acquisition strengthens our extremities and trauma product portfolios and brings new product development capabilities in the foot and ankle and hand and wrist markets. in january 2012, we acquired synvasive technology, inc. (synvasive). the synvasive acquisition enhances our product portfolio through the addition of the stablecut &reg; surgical saw blades, as well as the elibra &reg; dynamic knee balancing system tm for soft tissue balancing. in october 2012, we acquired dornoch medical systems, inc. (dornoch). the dornoch acquisition enhances our product portfolio through the addition of a medical waste fluid management and disposal technology. in november 2011, we acquired extraortho, inc. (extraortho). the extraortho acquisition enhances our position in the external fixation market. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in our consolidated results of operations subsequent to the transaction dates, and the respective assets and liabilities of the acquired companies have been recorded at their estimated fair values in our consolidated statement of financial position as of the transaction dates, with any excess purchase price being recorded as goodwill. pro forma financial information and other information required have not been included as the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, did not have a material impact upon our financial position or results of operations. 45 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 7. investments we invest in short and long-term investments classified as available-for-sale securities. information regarding our investments is as follows (in millions): gross unrealized fair value amortized cost gains losses as of december 31, 2013 corporate debt securities $ 457.6 $ 0.4 $ (0.1 ) $ 457.9 u.s. government and agency debt securities 211.1 0.1 211.2 foreign government debt securities 3.1 3.1 commercial paper 68.3 68.3 certificates of deposit 67.2 67.2 total short and long-term investments $ 807.3 $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ 807.7 as of december 31, 2012 corporate debt securities $ 383.6 $ 0.3 $ (0.1 ) $ 383.8 u.s. government and agency debt securities 295.8 0.1 295.9 foreign government debt securities 5.0 5.0 commercial paper 138.7 138.7 certificates of deposit 92.2 0.1 92.3 total short and long-term investments $ 915.3 $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ 915.7 the amortized cost and fair value of our available-for-sale fixed-maturity securities by contractual maturity are as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 amortized cost fair value due in one year or less $ 726.7 $ 727.0 due after one year through two years 80.6 80.7 total $ 807.3 $ 807.7 in january 2014, we sold certain debt securities with amortized cost and fair values as of december 31, 2013 of $567.5 million and $567.8 million, respectively. included in that total were $161.2 million of securities at fair value with maturities of one year through two years that we classified as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheet. the table above reflects these securities in the due in one year or less category even though their contractual maturities were longer. 8. fair value measurements of assets and liabilities the following financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 fair value measurements at reporting date using: description recorded balance quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) assets available-for-sale securities corporate debt securities $ 457.9 $ $ 457.9 $ u.s. government and agency debt securities 211.2 211.2 foreign government debt securities 3.1 3.1 commercial paper 68.3 68.3 certificates of deposit 67.2 67.2 total available-for-sale securities 807.7 807.7 derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts and options 68.7 68.7 interest rate swaps 16.3 16.3 $ 892.7 $ $ 892.7 $ liabilities derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts and options 20.6 20.6 interest rate swaps 7.0 7.0 $ 27.6 $ $ 27.6 $ 46 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) as of december 31, 2012 fair value measurements at reporting date using: description recorded balance quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) assets available-for-sale securities corporate debt securities $ 383.8 $ $ 383.8 $ u.s. government and agency debt securities 295.9 295.9 foreign government debt securities 5.0 5.0 commercial paper 138.7 138.7 certificates of deposit 92.3 92.3 total available-for-sale securities 915.7 915.7 derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts and options 28.4 28.4 interest rate swaps 33.9 33.9 $ 978.0 $ $ 978.0 $ liabilities derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts $ 10.8 $ $ 10.8 $ we value our available-for-sale securities using a market approach based on broker prices for identical assets in over-the-counter markets and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. we value our foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options using a market approach based on foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. we value our interest rate swaps using a market approach based on publicly available market yield curves and the terms of our swaps and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. the following nonfinancial assets were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis (in millions): fair value measurements using: description total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) total losses year ended december 31, 2013 indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 21.0 $ $ $ 21.0 $ 2.8 year ended december 31, 2012 goodwill $ 41.0 $ 41.0 $ 96.0 indefinite-lived intangible assets 24.2 24.2 11.6 we conduct our annual goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of every year or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. in 2012, it was determined that our u.s. spine reporting unit carrying value was in excess of its fair value. the goodwill for this reporting unit was written down to its implied fair value of $41.0 million from its previous carrying value of $137.0 million, resulting in a $96.0 million non-cash impairment charge. the implied fair value of goodwill equals the estimated fair value of a reporting unit minus the fair value of the reporting unit net assets. in determining the implied fair value of the u.s. spine reporting unit goodwill, we used unobservable inputs to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and its assets and liabilities. fair value was determined using an equal weighting of income and market approaches. fair value under the income approach was determined by discounting to present value the estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit. fair value under the market approach utilized the guideline public company methodology, which uses valuation indicators from publicly traded companies that are similar to our u.s. spine reporting unit and considers control premiums that would result from a sale of the reporting unit and the level of assets in the reporting unit versus the comparable companies. in estimating the future cash flows of the reporting unit, we utilized a combination of market and company specific inputs that a market participant would use in assessing the fair value of the reporting unit. the primary market input was revenue growth rates. these rates were based upon historical trends and estimated future growth drivers such as an aging global population, obesity and more active lifestyles. significant company specific inputs included assumptions regarding how the reporting unit could leverage operating expenses as revenue grows and the impact any new products will have on revenues. 47 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) under the guideline public company methodology, we took into consideration specific risk differences between our reporting unit and the comparable companies, such as recent financial performance, size risks and product portfolios, among other considerations. based upon our reporting unit recent financial performance, market share and product portfolio, we valued the reporting unit near the bottom of the valuation indicators of the comparable companies. the fair value of the reporting unit assets and liabilities were determined by using the same methods that are used in business combination purchase accounting. factors that contributed to impairment of the u.s. spine reporting unit included broader market issues as well as company specific issues. the u.s. spine market was and continues to be under pressure due to a constrained economic environment leading to continuing high unemployment and payer pushback on the necessity of certain procedures. additionally, pricing was and continues to decline across the industry. company specific issues included turnover with our independent sales agents and lack of execution in developing new, competitive products which resulted in a less than optimal product portfolio in our u.s. spine reporting unit. before the economic downturn in 2008, we estimated the u.s. spine market was growing in the low double digits, but declined to flat or in the low single digits in 2012. previous goodwill impairment tests forecasted some recovery in the market which did not occur. as we completed our annual operating plan in the fourth quarter of 2012, it became clearer that the u.s. spine market recovery may take longer than we planned, including the persistence of significant negative pricing pressures. additionally, we concluded that new product introductions made in 2012 would not have as significant of a positive effect as we had previously forecasted. as a result, we tempered our expectations of recovery in the u.s. market and for our u.s. spine reporting unit and recognized an impairment charge. in our 2013 annual goodwill impairment test of our u.s. spine reporting unit, we concluded no impairment charge was necessary. while our estimated fair value of the reporting unit declined slightly, the net assets of the reporting unit declined by more. the decrease in the net assets was primarily due to continued amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and lower working capital needs. however, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit did not substantially exceed its carrying value. we have five other reporting units with goodwill assigned to them. we estimate the fair value of those reporting units using the income approach by discounting to present value the estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit. due to challenging market conditions associated with our u.s. dental reporting unit, that reporting unit estimated fair value did not substantially exceed its carrying value in our 2013 goodwill impairment test. for each of the other four reporting units, the estimated fair value substantially exceeded its carrying value. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our u.s. spine and u.s. dental reporting units as well as our other four reporting units in our interim and annual reporting periods. if estimated cash flows for these reporting units decrease, we may be required to record further impairment charges in the future. factors that could result in our cash flows being lower than our current estimates include: 1) decreased revenues caused by unforeseen changes in the healthcare market, or our inability to generate new product revenue from our research and development activities, and 2) our inability to achieve the estimated operating margins in our forecasts due to unforeseen factors. additionally, changes in the broader economic environment could cause changes to our estimated discount rates or comparable company valuation indicators, which may impact our estimated fair values. in 2013 and 2012, we also recorded $2.8 million and $11.6 million, respectively, of impairment charges in special items related to certain indefinite lived intangible assets. the impairment was a result of lower future estimated revenues from products using certain trademarks. the lower future estimated revenue resulted from negative publicity in the marketplace related to certain hip devices and our challenges in the global spine market that have adversely affected sales of these products. further information regarding how the fair value of these indefinite lived trademarks was determined has not been provided as we do not believe this non-cash charge was significant to our results for 2013 and 2012. 48 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 9. goodwill and other intangible assets the following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill (in millions): americas europe asia pacific total balance at january 1, 2012 goodwill $ 1,595.3 $ 1,111.8 $ 195.9 $ 2,903.0 accumulated impairment losses (277.0 ) (277.0 ) 1,318.3 1,111.8 195.9 2,626.0 u.s. spine reporting unit impairment (96.0 ) (96.0 ) acquisitions 25.9 25.9 currency translation 2.7 16.8 (3.6 ) 15.9 balance at december 31, 2012 goodwill 1,623.9 1,128.6 192.3 2,944.8 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) 1,250.9 1,128.6 192.3 2,571.8 acquisitions 11.0 24.0 35.0 currency translation (5.0 ) 34.5 (25.1 ) 4.4 balance at december 31, 2013 goodwill 1,629.9 1,187.1 167.2 2,984.2 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) $ 1,256.9 $ 1,187.1 $ 167.2 $ 2,611.2 the components of identifiable intangible assets are as follows (in millions): technology intellectual property rights trademarks and trade names customer relationships other total as of december 31, 2013: intangible assets subject to amortization: gross carrying amount $ 700.4 $ 173.4 $ 43.3 $ 216.2 $ 95.1 $ 1,228.4 accumulated amortization (401.4 ) (142.5 ) (33.9 ) (76.4 ) (43.9 ) (698.1 ) intangible assets not subject to amortization: gross carrying amount 177.4 177.4 total identifiable intangible assets $ 299.0 $ 30.9 $ 186.8 $ 139.8 $ 51.2 $ 707.7 as of december 31, 2012: intangible assets subject to amortization: gross carrying amount $ 695.1 $ 173.4 $ 47.4 $ 177.0 $ 95.7 $ 1,188.6 accumulated amortization (362.5 ) (124.2 ) (31.1 ) (61.7 ) (46.0 ) (625.5 ) intangible assets not subject to amortization: gross carrying amount 177.6 177.6 total identifiable intangible assets $ 332.6 $ 49.2 $ 193.9 $ 115.3 $ 49.7 $ 740.7 49 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) intangible amortization expense was recorded as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 cost of products sold $ 18.3 $ 24.0 $ 26.7 selling, general and administrative 77.6 73.1 67.1 total intangible amortization $ 95.9 $ 97.1 $ 93.8 estimated annual amortization expense based upon intangible assets recognized as of december 31, 2013 for the years ending december 31, 2014 through 2018 is (in millions): for the years ending december 31, 2014 $ 98.0 2015 84.7 2016 74.4 2017 61.6 2018 45.8 10. other current and long-term liabilities other current and long-term liabilities consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 2012 other current liabilities: license and service agreements $ 109.2 $ 92.3 certain claims accrual (note 19) 50.0 50.0 salaries, wages and benefits 122.8 118.8 accrued liabilities 381.6 297.9 total other current liabilities $ 663.6 $ 559.0 other long-term liabilities: long-term income tax payable $ 115.0 $ 213.0 certain claims accrual (note 19) 329.0 210.8 other long-term liabilities 132.6 135.5 total other long-term liabilities $ 576.6 $ 559.3 11. debt our debt consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 2012 short-term debt senior credit facility $ $ 100.0 other short-term debt 0.5 0.1 total short-term debt $ 0.5 $ 100.1 long-term debt senior notes due 2014 $ 250.0 $ 250.0 senior notes due 2019 500.0 500.0 senior notes due 2021 300.0 300.0 senior notes due 2039 500.0 500.0 term loan 112.4 138.6 other long-term debt 2.1 debt discount (1.5 ) (1.7 ) adjustment related to interest rate swaps 9.3 33.9 total long-term debt $ 1,672.3 $ 1,720.8 we have a five year $1,350 million revolving, multi-currency, senior unsecured credit facility maturing may 9, 2017 (senior credit facility). there were no borrowings outstanding under the senior credit facility at december 31, 2013. we have a term loan agreement (term loan) with one of the lenders under the senior credit facility for 11.7 billion japanese yen that will mature on may 31, 2016. borrowings under the term loan bear interest at a fixed rate of 0.61 percent per annum until maturity. the estimated fair value of the term loan as of december 31, 2013, based upon publicly available market yield curves and the terms of the debt (level 2), was $112.2 million. we and certain of our wholly owned foreign subsidiaries are the borrowers under the senior credit facility. borrowings under the senior credit facility bear interest at a libor-based rate plus an applicable margin determined by reference to our senior unsecured long-term credit rating and the amounts drawn under the senior credit facility, at an alternate base rate, or at a fixed-rate determined through a competitive bid process. the senior credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for an unsecured financing arrangement, including, among other things, limitations on consolidations, mergers and sales or transfers of assets. financial covenants include a maximum leverage ratio of 3.0 to 1.0. if we fall below an investment grade credit rating, additional restrictions would result, including restrictions on investments, payment of dividends and stock repurchases. we were in compliance with all covenants under the senior credit facility as of december 31, 2013. commitments under the senior credit facility are subject to certain fees, including a facility and a utilization fee. 50 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) we have four tranches of senior notes outstanding: $250 million aggregate principal amount of 1.4 percent notes due november 30, 2014, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625 percent notes due november 30, 2019, $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375 percent notes due november 30, 2021 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75 percent notes due november 30, 2039. interest on each series is payable on may 30 and november 30 of each year until maturity. the estimated fair value of our senior notes as of december 31, 2013, based on quoted prices for the specific securities from transactions in over-the-counter markets (level 2), was $1,649.5 million. we may redeem the senior notes at our election in whole or in part at any time prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of 1) 100 percent of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed; or 2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis at the treasury rate (as defined in the debt agreement), plus 15 basis points in the case of the 2014 notes, 20 basis points in the case of the 2019 notes and 2021 notes, and 25 basis points in the case of the 2039 notes. we would also pay the accrued and unpaid interest on the senior notes to the redemption date. we have entered into interest rate swap agreements which we designated as fair value hedges of underlying fixed-rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. see note 13 for additional information regarding the interest rate swap agreements. before our senior notes due november 30, 2014 become payable, we intend to issue new senior notes in order to pay the $250 million owed. if we are not able to issue new senior notes, we intend to borrow against our senior credit facility to pay these notes. since we have the ability and intent to refinance these senior notes on a long-term basis with new notes or through our senior credit facility, we have classified these senior notes as long-term debt as of december 31, 2013. we also have available uncommitted credit facilities totaling $50.7 million. at december 31, 2013, the weighted average interest rate for our long-term borrowings was 3.3 percent. at december 31, 2012, the weighted average interest rate for short-term and long-term borrowings was 1.1 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively. we paid $68.1 million, $67.8 million and $55.0 million in interest during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 12. accumulated other comprehensive income oci refers to certain gains and losses that under gaap are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from net earnings as these amounts are initially recorded as an adjustment to stockholders equity. amounts in oci may be reclassified to net earnings upon the occurrence of certain events. our oci is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, and amortization of prior service costs and unrecognized gains and losses in actuarial assumptions on our defined benefit plans. foreign currency translation adjustments are reclassified to net earnings upon sale or upon a complete or substantially complete liquidation of an investment in a foreign entity. unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges are reclassified to net earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are reclassified to net earnings if we sell the security before maturity or if the unrealized loss is considered to be other-than-temporary. we typically hold our available-for-sale securities until maturity and are able to realize their amortized cost and therefore we do not have reclassification adjustments to net earnings on these securities. amounts related to defined benefit plans that are in oci are reclassified over the service periods of employees in the plan. the reclassification amounts are allocated to all employees in the plans and therefore the reclassified amounts may become part of inventory to the extent they are considered direct labor costs. see note 14 for more information on our defined benefit plans. the following table shows the changes in the components of oci, net of tax (in millions): foreign currency translation cash flow hedges unrealized gains on securities defined benefit plan items balance december 31, 2012 $ 445.5 $ 4.1 $ 0.4 $ (106.1 ) oci before reclassifications (44.4 ) 33.4 0.1 30.6 reclassifications (4.4 ) 7.9 balance december 31, 2013 $ 401.1 $ 33.1 $ 0.5 $ (67.6 ) 51 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table shows the reclassification adjustments from oci (in millions): amount of gain / (loss) reclassified from oci location on statement of earnings for the years ended december 31, component of oci 2013 2012 2011 cash flow hedges foreign exchange forward contracts $ 8.0 $ (12.0 ) $ (32.9 ) cost of products sold foreign exchange options (0.2 ) (0.4 ) cost of products sold cross-currency interest rate swaps 0.2 (8.3 ) interest expense 7.8 (12.2 ) (41.2 ) total before tax 3.4 (8.9 ) (16.7 ) provision for income taxes $ 4.4 $ (3.3 ) $ (24.5 ) net of tax defined benefit plans prior service cost $ 3.9 $ 2.9 $ 0.8 * unrecognized actuarial (loss) (16.6 ) (13.3 ) (7.4 ) * (12.7 ) (10.4 ) (6.6 ) total before tax (4.8 ) (3.9 ) (2.6 ) provision for income taxes $ (7.9 ) $ (6.5 ) $ (4.0 ) net of tax total reclassifications $ (3.5 ) $ (9.8 ) $ (28.5 ) net of tax * these oci components are included in the computation of net periodic pension expense (see note 14). the following table shows the tax effects on each component of oci recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions): before tax tax net of tax for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 foreign currency cumulative translation adjustments $ (44.4 ) $ 46.1 $ 4.6 $ $ $ $ (44.4 ) $ 46.1 $ 4.6 unrealized cash flow hedge gains/(losses) 63.6 15.2 (34.9 ) 30.2 4.3 (4.3 ) 33.4 10.9 (30.6 ) reclassification adjustments on foreign currency hedges (7.8 ) 12.2 41.2 (3.4 ) 8.9 16.7 (4.4 ) 3.3 24.5 unrealized gains on securities 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.2 adjustments to prior service cost and unrecognized actuarial assumptions 50.3 20.3 (71.3 ) 11.8 8.5 (23.0 ) 38.5 11.8 (48.3 ) total other comprehensive gain/(loss) $ 61.8 $ 94.2 $ (60.2 ) $ 38.6 $ 21.7 $ (10.6 ) $ 23.2 $ 72.5 $ (49.6 ) 13. derivative instruments and hedging activities we are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency exchange rate risk, commodity price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities. currently, the only risks that we manage through the use of derivative instruments are interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. interest rate risk derivatives designated as fair value hedges we use interest rate derivative instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. under these agreements, we agree to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. the objective of the instruments is to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on cash and cash equivalents. these derivative instruments are designated as fair value hedges under gaap. changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in current earnings and are offset by gains or losses on the underlying debt instrument. we have multiple fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements that we have designated as fair value hedges of the fixed interest rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. the total notional amounts are $250 million and $300 million for the senior notes due 2019 and 2021, respectively. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2019, we receive a fixed interest rate of 4.625 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 133 basis points. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2021, we receive a fixed interest rate of 3.375 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 99 basis points. 52 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. to reduce the potential effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements on net earnings, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. derivatives designated as cash flow hedges our revenues are generated in various currencies throughout the world. however, a significant amount of our inventory is produced in u.s. dollars. therefore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates may have different proportional effects on our revenues compared to our cost of products sold. to minimize the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements on cash flows, we hedge intercompany sales of inventory expected to occur within the next 30 months with foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options. we designate these derivative instruments as cash flow hedges. we perform quarterly assessments of hedge effectiveness by verifying and documenting the critical terms of the hedge instrument and that forecasted transactions have not changed significantly. we also assess on a quarterly basis whether there have been adverse developments regarding the risk of a counterparty default. for derivatives which qualify as hedges of future cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income and then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value, if any, is immediately reported in cost of products sold. for foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options outstanding at december 31, 2013, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees and obligations to purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars. these derivatives mature at dates ranging from january 2014 through june 2016. as of december 31, 2013, the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts and options entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars were $1,574.6 million. as of december 31, 2013, the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts and options entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs were $353.3 million. derivatives not designated as hedging instruments we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, any foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. these offsetting gains/losses are recorded in cost of products sold as the underlying assets and liabilities exposed to remeasurement include inventory-related transactions. these contracts are settled on the last day of each reporting period. therefore, there is no outstanding balance related to these contracts recorded on the balance sheet as of the end of the reporting period. the notional amounts of these contracts are typically in a range of $1.2 billion to $1.7 billion per quarter. foreign currency exchange and interest rate risk derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in 2011, our subsidiary in japan, with a functional currency of japanese yen, borrowed variable-rate debt of $143.0 million denominated in u.s. dollars under our previous credit facility. to manage the foreign currency exchange risk associated with remeasuring the debt to japanese yen and the interest rate risk associated with the variable-rate debt, we entered into multiple cross-currency interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of 11,798 million japanese yen. we designated these swaps as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks. the effective portion of changes in fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps was temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income and then recognized in interest expense when the hedged item affected net earnings. the cross-currency interest rate swap agreements matured in 2012 and we paid off the subsidiary u.s. dollar debt with japanese yen debt borrowed under our previous credit facility. 53 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) income statement presentation derivatives designated as fair value hedges derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges had the following effects on our consolidated statements of earnings (in millions): gain / (loss) on instrument gain / (loss) on hedged item derivative instrument location on statement of earnings year ended december 31, year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 interest rate swaps interest expense $ (24.6 ) $ 6.1 $ 26.3 $ 24.6 $ (6.1 ) $ (26.3 ) we had no ineffective fair value hedging instruments nor any amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. derivatives designated as cash flow hedges derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges had the following effects, before taxes, on oci and net earnings on our consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated statements of comprehensive income and consolidated balance sheets (in millions): amount of gain / (loss) recognized in oci amount of gain / (loss) reclassified from oci year ended december 31, year ended december 31, derivative instrument 2013 2012 2011 location on statement of earnings 2013 2012 2011 foreign exchange forward contracts $ 63.9 $ 16.3 $ (34.9 ) cost of products sold $ 8.0 $ (12.0 ) $ (32.9 ) foreign exchange options (0.3 ) (1.1 ) (0.2 ) cost of products sold (0.2 ) (0.4 ) cross-currency interest rate swaps 0.2 interest expense 0.2 (8.3 ) $ 63.6 $ 15.2 $ (34.9 ) $ 7.8 $ (12.2 ) $ (41.2 ) the net amount recognized in earnings during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 due to ineffectiveness and amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were not significant. the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges and recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2013, together with settled derivatives where the hedged item has not yet affected earnings, was a net unrealized gain of $60.8 million, or $33.1 million after taxes, which is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income. of the net unrealized gain, $23.9 million, or $10.0 million after taxes, is expected to be reclassified to earnings over the next twelve months. derivatives not designated as hedging instruments the following gains/(losses) from these derivative instruments were recognized on our consolidated statements of earnings (in millions): derivative instrument location on statement of earnings year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 foreign exchange forward contracts cost of products sold $ $ (2.0 ) $ 2.7 this impact does not include any offsetting gains/losses recognized in earnings as a result of foreign currency remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. 54 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) balance sheet presentation as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012, all derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet. on our consolidated balance sheets, we recognize individual forward contracts and options with the same counterparty on a net asset/liability basis if we have a master netting agreement with the counterparty. under these master netting agreements, we are able to settle derivative instrument assets and liabilities with the same counterparty in a single transaction, instead of settling each derivative instrument separately. we have master netting agreements with all of our counterparties. the fair value of derivative instruments on a gross basis is as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 as of december 31, 2012 balance sheet location fair value balance sheet location fair value asset derivatives foreign exchange forward contracts other current assets $ 60.2 other current assets $ 29.7 foreign exchange options other current assets other current assets 0.6 foreign exchange forward contracts other assets 30.2 other assets 19.8 interest rate swaps other assets 16.3 other assets 33.9 total asset derivatives $ 106.7 $ 84.0 liability derivatives foreign exchange forward contracts other current liabilities $ 26.4 other current liabilities $ 20.2 foreign exchange forward contracts other long-term liabilities 15.9 other current liabilities 12.3 interest rate swaps other long-term liabilities 7.0 other long-term liabilities total liability derivatives $ 49.3 $ 32.5 the table below presents the effects of our master netting agreements on our consolidated balance sheets (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 as of december 31, 2012 description location gross amount offset net amount in balance sheet gross amount offset net amount in balance sheet asset derivatives cash flow hedges other current assets $ 60.2 $ 13.5 $ 46.7 $ 30.3 $ 15.2 $ 15.1 cash flow hedges other assets 30.2 8.2 22.0 19.8 6.5 13.3 liability derivatives cash flow hedges other current liabilities 26.4 13.5 12.9 20.2 15.2 5.0 cash flow hedges other long-term liabilities 15.9 8.2 7.7 12.3 6.5 5.8 14. retirement benefit plans we have defined benefit pension plans covering certain u.s. and puerto rico employees. the employees who are not participating in the defined benefit plans receive additional benefits under our defined contribution plans. plan benefits are primarily based on years of credited service and the participant average eligible compensation. in addition to the u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit pension plans, we sponsor various foreign pension arrangements, including retirement and termination benefit plans required by local law or coordinated with government sponsored plans. we use a december 31 measurement date for our benefit plans. 55 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) defined benefit plans the components of net pension expense for our defined benefit retirement plans are as follows (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 service cost $ 11.9 $ 11.4 $ 11.4 $ 16.1 $ 15.0 $ 16.8 interest cost 13.2 13.3 13.0 5.6 6.1 7.3 expected return on plan assets (28.7 ) (25.5 ) (21.9 ) (6.7 ) (7.6 ) (9.6 ) settlement 0.7 amortization of prior service cost (2.6 ) (2.0 ) (1.3 ) (0.9 ) (0.8 ) amortization of unrecognized actuarial loss 14.8 11.4 6.2 1.8 1.9 1.2 net periodic benefit cost $ 8.6 $ 9.3 $ 8.7 $ 15.5 $ 14.5 $ 14.9 the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine net pension expense for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows: u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 discount rate 4.32 % 4.97 % 5.82 % 2.13 % 2.58 % 2.82 % rate of compensation increase 3.29 % 3.81 % 3.81 % 2.29 % 2.77 % 2.64 % expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.75 % 7.75 % 7.75 % 2.74 % 3.51 % 4.01 % the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on the historical and estimated future rates of return on the different asset classes held in the plans. the expected long-term rate of return is the weighted average of the target asset allocation of each individual asset class. we believe that historical asset results approximate expected market returns applicable to the funding of a long-term benefit obligation. discount rates were determined for each of our defined benefit retirement plans at their measurement date to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality bonds matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefit payments. 56 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) changes in projected benefit obligations and plan assets were (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 projected benefit obligation beginning of year $ 314.3 $ 290.0 $ 259.4 $ 235.1 service cost 11.9 11.4 16.1 15.0 interest cost 13.2 13.3 5.6 6.1 plan amendments (17.1 ) 118.9 (3.7 ) employee contributions 15.9 17.5 benefits paid (10.4 ) (7.0 ) (29.4 ) (21.3 ) settlement (1.1 ) actuarial (gain) loss (12.3 ) 24.8 (17.7 ) 6.9 expenses paid (0.2 ) (0.2 ) translation loss 2.9 4.0 projected benefit obligation end of year $ 316.7 $ 314.3 $ 371.5 $ 259.4 plan assets at fair market value beginning of year $ 363.0 $ 275.1 $ 231.6 $ 205.1 actual return on plan assets 25.2 40.7 9.7 11.4 employer contributions 20.8 54.2 15.0 15.5 employee contributions 15.9 17.5 plan amendments 126.7 benefits paid (10.4 ) (7.0 ) (29.4 ) (21.3 ) expenses paid (0.2 ) (0.2 ) translation gain 3.0 3.6 plan assets at fair market value end of year $ 398.6 $ 363.0 $ 372.3 $ 231.6 funded status $ 81.9 $ 48.7 $ 0.8 $ (27.8 ) amounts recognized in consolidated balance sheet: prepaid pension $ 92.7 $ 61.9 $ 12.1 $ 7.5 short-term accrued benefit liability (0.7 ) (0.4 ) long-term accrued benefit liability (10.1 ) (12.8 ) (11.3 ) (35.3 ) net amount recognized $ 81.9 $ 48.7 $ 0.8 $ (27.8 ) amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income: unrecognized prior service cost $ (12.0 ) $ (14.5 ) $ (8.3 ) $ (9.6 ) unrecognized actuarial loss 113.3 136.9 15.5 35.9 total amount recognized $ 101.3 $ 122.4 $ 7.2 $ 26.3 we estimate the following amounts recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income will be recognized as part of our net pension expense during 2014 (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign unrecognized prior service cost $ (2.6 ) $ (1.2 ) unrecognized actuarial loss 10.9 0.4 $ 8.3 $ (0.8 ) 57 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows: u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 discount rate 4.98 % 4.32 % 5.05 % 2.45 % 2.15 % 2.49 % rate of compensation increase 3.29 % 3.29 % 3.81 % 1.52 % 2.75 % 2.76 % plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign as of december 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 projected benefit obligation $ 10.8 $ 29.3 $ 318.1 $ 233.1 plan assets at fair market value 16.0 307.4 197.7 total accumulated benefit obligations and plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign as of december 31, 2013 2012 2013 2012 total accumulated benefit obligations $ 273.8 $ 268.7 $ 362.1 $ 244.9 plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: accumulated benefit obligation 8.8 26.9 308.9 191.9 plan assets at fair market value 16.0 303.7 168.8 the benefits expected to be paid out in each of the next five years and for the five years combined thereafter are as follows (in millions): for the years ending december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2014 $ 11.5 $ 18.3 2015 11.6 19.4 2016 13.3 19.2 2017 14.7 19.3 2018 16.3 19.9 2019-2023 104.8 106.0 the u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit retirement plans overall investment strategy is to maximize total returns by emphasizing long-term growth of capital while mitigating risk. we have established target ranges of assets held by the plans of 40 to 45 percent for equity securities, 30 to 35 percent for debt securities and 20 to 25 percent in non-traditional investments. the plans strive to have sufficiently diversified assets so that adverse or unexpected results from one asset class will not have an unduly detrimental impact on the entire portfolio. we regularly review the investments in the plans and we may rebalance them from time-to-time based upon the target asset allocation of the plans. for the u.s. and puerto rico plans, we maintain an investment policy statement that guides the investment allocation in the plans. the investment policy statement describes the target asset allocation positions described above. our benefits committee, along with our investment advisor, monitor compliance with and administer the investment policy statement and the plans assets and oversee the general investment strategy and objectives of the plans. our benefits committee generally meets quarterly to review performance and to ensure that the current investment allocation is within the parameters of the investment policy statement. the investment strategies of foreign based plans vary according to the plan provisions and local laws. the majority of the assets in foreign based plans are located in switzerland-based plans. these assets are held in trusts and are commingled with the assets of other swiss companies with representatives of all the companies making the investment decisions. the overall strategy is to maximize total returns while avoiding risk. the trustees of the assets have established target ranges of assets held by the plans of 30 to 50 percent in debt securities, 20 to 37 percent in equity securities, 15 to 24 percent in real estate, 3 to 15 percent in cash funds and 0 to 12 percent in other funds. 58 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the fair value of our u.s. and puerto rico pension plan assets by asset category was as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 0.8 $ 0.8 $ $ equity securities: u.s. large-cap 79.6 79.6 u.s. small-cap 22.3 22.3 international 87.7 87.7 real estate 43.4 43.4 commodity-linked mutual funds 42.1 42.1 intermediate fixed income securities 122.7 122.7 total $ 398.6 $ 0.8 $ 397.8 $ as of december 31, 2012 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 3.2 $ 3.2 $ $ equity securities: u.s. large-cap 60.3 60.3 u.s. small-cap 22.1 22.1 international 87.5 87.5 real estate 29.5 29.5 commodity-linked mutual funds 38.3 38.3 intermediate fixed income securities 122.1 122.1 total $ 363.0 $ 3.2 $ 359.8 $ the fair value of our foreign pension plan assets was as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2013 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 13.9 $ 13.9 $ $ equity securities: energy 4.7 4.7 materials 5.7 5.7 industrials 7.6 7.6 consumer discretionary 5.2 5.2 consumer staples 6.8 6.8 healthcare 9.7 9.7 financials 15.8 15.8 information technology 5.8 5.8 telecommunication services 2.6 2.6 utilities 3.4 3.4 other 35.7 33.2 2.5 fixed income securities: government bonds 64.4 64.4 corporate bonds 65.9 65.9 asset-backed securities 24.0 24.0 other debt 2.8 2.8 other types of investments: mortgage loans 9.0 9.0 insurance contracts 6.4 6.4 other investments 14.7 14.7 real estate 68.2 68.2 total $ 372.3 $ 114.4 $ 189.7 $ 68.2 as of december 31, 2012 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 12.7 $ 12.7 $ $ equity securities: energy 1.7 1.7 materials 2.6 2.6 industrials 4.1 4.1 consumer discretionary 2.2 2.2 consumer staples 3.0 3.0 healthcare 4.9 4.9 financials 7.3 7.3 information technology 2.5 2.5 telecommunication services 1.0 1.0 utilities 1.6 1.6 other 35.1 32.5 2.6 fixed income securities: government bonds 44.9 44.9 corporate bonds 37.9 37.9 asset-backed securities 13.2 13.2 other debt 1.0 1.0 other types of investments: mortgage loans 5.4 5.4 insurance contracts 5.9 5.9 other investments 7.5 7.5 real estate 37.1 37.1 total $ 231.6 $ 76.1 $ 118.4 $ 37.1 59 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, our defined benefit pension plans assets did not hold any direct investment in zimmer holdings common stock. equity securities are valued using a market approach, based on quoted prices for the specific security from transactions in active exchange markets (level 1), or in some cases where we are invested in mutual or collective funds, based upon the net asset value per unit of the fund which is determined from quoted market prices of the underlying securities in the fund portfolio (level 2). fixed income securities are valued using a market approach, based upon quoted prices for the specific security or from institutional bid evaluations. some fixed income securities are in funds with a net asset value per unit which is determined using similar techniques for the underlying securities in the fund portfolio. real estate is valued by discounting to present value the cash flows expected to be generated by the specific properties. the following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of our foreign pension plan assets measured at fair value that used significant unobservable inputs (level 3) (in millions): december 31, 2013 beginning balance $ 37.1 gains on assets sold 0.1 change in fair value of assets 1.2 net purchases and sales 28.1 translation gain 1.7 ending balance $ 68.2 we expect that we will have no legally required minimum funding requirements in 2014 for the qualified u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit retirement plans. we expect to voluntarily contribute approximately $2.0 million to these plans during 2014. contributions to foreign defined benefit plans are estimated to be approximately $14.0 million in 2014. we do not expect the assets in any of our plans to be returned to us in the next year. defined contribution plans we also sponsor defined contribution plans for substantially all of the u.s. and puerto rico employees and certain employees in other countries. the benefits offered under these plans are reflective of local customs and practices in the countries concerned. we expensed $29.6 million, $26.5 million and $25.7 million related to these plans for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 15. income taxes the components of earnings before income taxes and the income taxes paid consisted of the following (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 united states operations $ 400.7 $ 409.9 $ 485.7 foreign operations 580.4 580.2 493.2 total $ 981.1 $ 990.1 $ 978.9 the provision for income taxes consisted of (in millions): current: federal $ 199.0 $ 179.8 $ 148.4 state 20.6 13.8 14.3 foreign 128.5 108.4 75.9 348.1 302.0 238.6 deferred: federal (87.7 ) (58.8 ) (2.6 ) state (8.5 ) 0.7 (0.9 ) foreign (30.0 ) (6.7 ) (16.2 ) (126.2 ) (64.8 ) (19.7 ) provision for income taxes $ 221.9 $ 237.2 $ 218.9 income taxes paid $ 272.3 $ 227.6 $ 236.4 a reconciliation of the u.s. statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is as follows: for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 u.s. statutory income tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % state taxes, net of federal deduction 0.8 1.0 0.7 tax impact of foreign operations, including foreign tax credits (12.2 ) (10.4 ) (11.0 ) tax impact of certain significant transactions 1.6 (3.5 ) tax benefit relating to u.s. manufacturer deduction and export sales (1.8 ) (1.9 ) (1.6 ) r&amp;d credit (0.6 ) (0.5 ) goodwill impairment 3.4 other (0.2 ) 0.4 (0.2 ) effective income tax rate 22.6 % 24.0 % 22.4 % our operations in puerto rico, switzerland and the state of indiana benefit from various tax incentive grants. unless these grants are extended, they will expire between fiscal years 2014 and 2026. deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred income tax assets when it is more likely than not that an income tax benefit will not be realized. 60 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the components of deferred taxes consisted of the following (in millions): as of december, 31 2013 2012 deferred tax assets: inventory $ 271.1 $ 225.1 net operating loss carryover 26.4 26.8 tax credit carryover 187.1 16.4 capital loss carryover 7.8 4.0 accrued liabilities 72.0 67.0 share-based compensation 74.6 106.3 unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries 25.6 172.3 other 11.2 42.3 total deferred tax assets 675.8 660.2 less: valuation allowances (42.7 ) (41.3 ) total deferred tax assets after valuation 633.1 618.9 deferred tax liabilities: fixed assets $ (97.7 ) $ (93.9 ) intangible assets (106.4 ) (140.6 ) other (1.2 ) (1.0 ) total deferred tax liabilities (205.3 ) (235.5 ) total net deferred tax assets $ 427.8 $ 383.4 the net operating loss carryovers are available to reduce future federal, state and foreign taxable earnings. at december 31, 2013, these net operating loss carryovers generally expire within a period of 1 to 20 years. valuation allowances for net operating loss carryovers have been established in the amount of $17.3 million and $17.0 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the tax credit carryovers are available to offset future federal, state and foreign tax liabilities. at december 31, 2013, these tax credit carryovers generally expire within a period of 1 to 10 years. we have established valuation allowances for certain tax credit carryovers in the amount of $14.9 million and $14.2 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the capital loss carryover is also available to reduce future federal capital gains. at december 31, 2013 these capital loss carryovers generally expire within a period of 4 to 5 years. we have established valuation allowances for certain capital loss carryovers in the amount of $7.8 million and $4.0 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the remaining valuation allowances of $2.7 million and $6.1 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, relate primarily to potential capital losses. at december 31, 2013, we had an aggregate of approximately $3,354 million of unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have been, or are intended to be, indefinitely reinvested for continued use in foreign operations. if the total undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries were remitted, a significant amount of the additional tax would be offset by the allowable foreign tax credits. it is not practical for us to determine the additional tax related to remitting these earnings. the following is a tabular reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 balance at january 1 $ 285.5 $ 158.4 $ 168.0 increases related to prior periods 16.5 118.7 11.4 decreases related to prior periods (17.3 ) (8.9 ) (49.0 ) increases related to current period 22.5 19.1 34.4 decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities (2.9 ) (0.6 ) (4.8 ) decreases related to lapse of statute of limitations (1.2 ) (1.6 ) balance at december 31 $ 304.3 $ 285.5 $ 158.4 amounts impacting effective tax rate, if recognized balance at december 31 $ 186.3 $ 159.0 $ 132.7 we recognize accrued interest and penalties, related to unrecognized tax benefits, as income tax expense. during 2013, we accrued interest and penalties of $8.2 million, and as of december 31, 2013, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $42.1 million. during 2012, we accrued interest and penalties of $23.2 million, and as of december 31, 2012, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $33.9 million. we decreased interest and penalties by $12.1 million during 2011, and as of december 31, 2011, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $10.7 million. we operate on a global basis and are subject to numerous and complex tax laws and regulations. our income tax filings are regularly under audit in multiple federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. income tax audits may require an extended period of time to reach resolution and may result in significant income tax adjustments when interpretation of tax laws or allocation of company profits is disputed. the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may change within the next twelve months between $0 and $60 million due to changes in audit status, expiration of statutes of limitations, settlements of tax assessments and other events which could impact our determination of unrecognized tax benefits. during the second quarter of 2011, the irs concluded their examination of our u.s. federal returns for years 2005 through 2007 and during the fourth quarter of 2013, the irs concluded their examination of our u.s. federal returns for years 2008 through 2009. for years 2006 through 2009, the irs has proposed adjustments reallocating profits between certain of our u.s. and foreign subsidiaries. we have disputed these proposed adjustments and continue to pursue resolution with the irs. although the ultimate timing for resolution of the disputed tax issues is uncertain, we anticipate that within the next twelve months we may settle certain tax matters with the irs, and pay amounts for other unresolved tax matters in order to limit the potential impact of irs interest charges. final resolution of these matters could have a material impact on our income tax expense, results of operations, and cash flows for future periods. 61 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) state income tax returns are generally subject to examination for a period of 3 to 5 years after filing of the respective return. the state impact of any federal changes generally remains subject to examination by various states for a period of up to one year after formal notification to the states. we have various state income tax returns in the process of examination, administrative appeals or litigation. our tax returns are currently under examination in various foreign jurisdictions. foreign jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. years still open to examination by foreign tax authorities in major jurisdictions include: australia (2009 onward), canada (2007 onward), france (2011 onward), germany (2009 onward), ireland (2009 onward), italy (2010 onward), japan (2010 onward), korea (2008 onward), puerto rico (2008 onward), switzerland (2012 onward), and the united kingdom (2012 onward). 16. capital stock and earnings per share we are authorized to issue 250 million shares of preferred stock, none of which were issued or outstanding as of december 31, 2013. the numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is net earnings available to common stockholders. the denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. the denominator for diluted earnings per share is weighted average shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of dilutive stock options and other equity awards. the following is a reconciliation of weighted average shares for the basic and diluted share computations (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 weighted average shares outstanding for basic net earnings per share 169.6 174.9 187.6 effect of dilutive stock options and other equity awards 2.2 1.1 1.1 weighted average shares outstanding for diluted net earnings per share 171.8 176.0 188.7 for the year ended december 31, 2013, an average of 3.1 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as the exercise prices of these options were greater than the average market price of the common stock. for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, an average of 11.9 million and 13.2 million options, respectively, were not included. during 2013, we repurchased 9.1 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $78.88 per share for a total cash outlay of $719.0 million, including commissions. effective january 1, 2014, we have a new share repurchase program that authorizes purchases of up to $1.0 billion with no expiration date. no further purchases will be made under the previous share repurchase program. 17. segment data we design, develop, manufacture and market orthopaedic reconstructive implants, biologics, dental implants, spinal implants, trauma products and related surgical products which include surgical supplies and instruments designed to aid in surgical procedures and post-operation rehabilitation. we also provide other healthcare-related services. we manage operations through three major geographic segments the americas, which is comprised principally of the u.s. and includes other north, central and south american markets; europe, which is comprised principally of europe and includes the middle east and african markets; and asia pacific, which is comprised primarily of japan and includes other asian and pacific markets. this structure is the basis for our reportable segment information discussed below. management evaluates reportable segment performance based upon segment operating profit exclusive of operating expenses pertaining to share-based payment expense, inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges, certain claims, goodwill impairment, special items, and global operations and corporate functions. global operations and corporate functions include research, development engineering, medical education, brand management, corporate legal, finance, and human resource functions, u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics and intangible asset amortization resulting from business combination accounting. intercompany transactions have been eliminated from segment operating profit. management reviews accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets by reportable segment exclusive of u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics and corporate assets. 62 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) net sales and other information by segment is as follows (in millions): americas europe asia pacific global operations and corporate functions total as of and for the year ended december 31, 2013 net sales $ 2,619.8 $ 1,212.6 $ 791.0 $ $ 4,623.4 depreciation and amortization 70.9 72.6 30.7 184.3 358.5 segment operating profit 1,302.6 359.7 342.3 (648.8 ) 1,355.8 share-based payment expense (48.5 ) inventory step-up (8.0 ) certain claims (47.0 ) special items (216.7 ) operating profit 1,035.6 long-lived assets 810.8 306.3 107.6 1,224.7 total assets 2,814.9 2,343.8 541.9 3,880.0 9,580.6 additions to instruments 0.2 14.8 6.5 171.4 192.9 additions to other property, plant and equipment 9.0 10.3 7.6 73.1 100.0 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 net sales $ 2,476.3 $ 1,177.4 $ 818.0 $ $ 4,471.7 depreciation and amortization 73.7 73.6 36.3 179.5 363.1 segment operating profit 1,256.3 369.1 311.1 (562.9 ) 1,373.6 share-based payment expense (55.0 ) inventory step-up (4.8 ) certain claims (15.0 ) goodwill impairment (96.0 ) special items (155.4 ) operating profit 1,047.4 long-lived assets 776.0 326.1 108.6 1,210.7 total assets 2,690.6 2,308.0 578.3 3,435.5 9,012.4 additions to instruments 14.0 7.1 127.8 148.9 additions to other property, plant and equipment 0.7 21.9 6.4 85.7 114.7 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011 net sales $ 2,440.8 $ 1,214.5 $ 796.5 $ $ 4,451.8 depreciation and amortization 81.0 74.9 36.3 167.7 359.9 segment operating profit 1,220.4 411.5 290.6 (593.5 ) 1,329.0 share-based payment expense (60.5 ) inventory step-up (11.4 ) certain claims (157.8 ) special items (75.2 ) operating profit 1,024.1 long-lived assets 769.0 330.6 107.7 1,207.3 total assets 2,571.6 2,345.5 602.4 2,995.8 8,515.3 additions to instruments 15.2 7.7 132.5 155.4 additions to other property, plant and equipment 1.3 23.8 4.7 84.0 113.8 63 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the americas long-lived tangible assets are located primarily in the u.s. $211.6 million of europe long-lived tangible assets as of december 31, 2013 are located in switzerland. for segment reporting purposes, deployed instruments are included in the measurement of reportable segment assets while undeployed instruments at u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics are included in global operations and corporate functions. the majority of instruments are purchased by u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics and are deployed to the reportable segments as needed for the business. therefore, the reportable segment assets include deployed instruments even though that reportable segment may not report the instrument addition. u.s. sales were $2,418.2 million, $2,280.7 million and $2,263.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. sales within any other individual country were less than 10 percent of our consolidated sales. sales are attributable to a country based upon the customer country of domicile. beginning in 2013, our knees product category net sales include certain early intervention products that are primarily used in knee procedures. in 2012 and 2011, these products were included in the surgical and other product category. net sales in the 2012 and 2011 periods related to these products have been reclassified to conform to the 2013 presentation. net sales by product category are as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 reconstructive knees $ 1,909.9 $ 1,833.8 $ 1,835.9 hips 1,330.5 1,342.0 1,355.6 extremities 193.8 173.8 163.4 3,434.2 3,349.6 3,354.9 dental 239.3 237.7 248.1 trauma 315.6 307.9 285.8 spine 202.3 208.9 225.0 surgical and other 432.0 367.6 338.0 total $ 4,623.4 $ 4,471.7 $ 4,451.8 18. leases total rent expense for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 aggregated $49.2 million, $46.3 million and $47.0 million, respectively. future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of december 31, 2013 were (in millions): for the years ending december 31, 2014 $ 47.6 2015 39.2 2016 27.7 2017 20.4 2018 16.0 thereafter 41.2 19. commitments and contingencies product liability-related claims we are subject to product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. we establish standard accruals for product liability claims in conjunction with outside counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for open claims, related legal fees and claims incurred but not reported. these standard product liability accruals are recognized in selling, general and administrative expense. we may also establish provisions for certain product liability claims outside of the standard accruals that are recorded separately on our statement of earnings, such as the provision for claims related to the durom cup discussed below. we maintain insurance, subject to self-insured retention requirements, for losses from these and other claims. on july 22, 2008, we temporarily suspended marketing and distribution of the durom cup in the u.s. subsequently, a number of product liability lawsuits and other claims have been asserted against us. we have settled some of these claims and the others are still pending. additional claims may be asserted in the future. initially, we estimated that any revision surgeries required would manifest themselves within two years of the original surgery. in the second quarter of 2010, based upon more recent claims information available, we revised our estimate to include all claims for revisions of original surgeries performed before july 22, 2008 (i.e., before our temporary suspension) on a worldwide basis, regardless of the amount of time between the revision surgery and the original surgery. in the fourth quarter of 2011, as additional claims information became available, we revised our estimates and methodology again to consolidate all estimated liabilities associated with durom cup-related claims regardless of whether the original surgery occurred before or after our temporary sales suspension. we recognized estimated claims that met the parameters noted in this paragraph during that time period as certain claims on 64 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) our statement of earnings. we recognized estimated claims outside these parameters as part of selling, general and administrative expense. the following table shows the line of our statement of earnings and the period in which durom cup-related claims were recognized: for the years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 total certain claims $ 47.0 $ 15.0 $ 157.8 $ 75.0 $ 35.0 $ 69.0 $ 398.8 selling, general and administrative 4.2 15.4 24.6 7.2 51.4 total $ 47.0 $ 15.0 $ 162.0 $ 90.4 $ 59.6 $ 76.2 $ 450.2 as noted above, we maintain insurance for product liability claims, subject to self-insurance retention requirements. in 2008, we notified our insurance carriers of potential claims related to the durom cup. based upon our most recent estimates for liabilities associated with the durom cup, as detailed above, we believe we may exhaust our self-insured retention under our insurance program. in this event, we would have a claim for insurance proceeds for ultimate losses which exceed the self-insured retention amount, subject to a 20 percent co-payment requirement and a cap. we believe our contracts with the insurance carriers are enforceable for these claims and therefore we believe it is highly probable that we would recover some amount from our insurance carriers if our ultimate losses exceed our self-insured retention. accordingly, we have recognized a $218.0 million receivable in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet that reduced certain claims expense for estimated insurance recoveries. as is customary in this process, our insurance carriers have reserved all rights under their respective policies and could still ultimately deny coverage for some or all of our insurance claims. our estimate, as of december 31, 2013, of the remaining liability for all durom cup-related claims is $379.0 million, of which $50.0 million is classified as short-term in other current liabilities and $329.0 million is classified as long-term in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. we expect to pay the majority of the durom cup-related claims within the next five years. our understanding of clinical outcomes with the durom cup and other large diameter hip cups continues to evolve. we rely on significant estimates in determining the provisions for durom cup-related claims, including the number of claims that we will receive and the average amount we will pay per claim. the actual number of claims that we receive and the amount we pay per claim may differ from our estimates. since our understanding of the clinical outcomes is still evolving, we cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may result from durom cup-related claims in excess of the losses we have accrued. on august 20, 2008, margo and daniel polett filed an action against us and an unrelated third party, public communications, inc. (pci), in the court of common pleas, philadelphia, pennsylvania seeking an unspecified amount of damages for injuries and loss of consortium allegedly suffered by mrs. polett and her spouse, respectively. the complaint alleged that defendants were negligent in connection with mrs. polett participation in a promotional video featuring one of our knee products. the case was tried in november 2010 and the jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiffs. the jury awarded $27.6 million in compensatory damages and apportioned fault 30 percent to plaintiffs, 34 percent to us and 36 percent to pci. under applicable law, we may be liable for any portion of the damages apportioned to pci that it does not pay. on december 2, 2010, we and pci filed a motion for post-trial relief seeking a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, a new trial or a remittitur. on june 10, 2011, the trial court entered an order denying our motion for post-trial relief and affirming the jury verdict in full and entered judgment for $20.3 million against us and pci. on june 29, 2011, we filed a notice of appeal to the superior court of pennsylvania and posted a bond for the verdict amount plus interest. oral argument before the appellate court in philadelphia, pennsylvania was held as scheduled on march 13, 2012. on march 1, 2013, the superior court of pennsylvania vacated the $27.6 million judgment and remanded the case for a new trial. on march 15, 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion for re-argument en banc , and on march 28, 2013, we filed our response in opposition . on may 9, 2013, the superior court of pennsylvania granted plaintiffs motion for re-argument en banc . oral argument (re-argument en banc ) before the superior court of pennsylvania was held on october 16, 2013. on december 20, 2013, the court issued its opinion again vacating the trial court judgment and remanding the case for a new trial. on january 21, 2014, plaintiffs filed a petition for allowance of appeal in the supreme court of pennsylvania, and on february 4, 2014, we filed our response in opposition. although we are defending this lawsuit vigorously, its ultimate resolution is uncertain. following a wide-spread advertising campaign conducted by certain law firms beginning in 2010, a number of product liability lawsuits have been filed against us in various jurisdictions. the plaintiffs seek damages for personal injury, alleging that certain products within the nexgen knee system suffer from defects that cause them to loosen prematurely. the majority of the cases are currently pending in a federal multidistrict litigation in the northern district of illinois. other cases are pending in other state and federal courts, and additional lawsuits may be filed. as of december 31, 2013, discovery in these lawsuits was underway and no trial dates had been set. we have not accrued an estimated loss relating to these lawsuits because we believe the plaintiffs allegations are not consistent with the record of clinical success for these products. as a result, we do not believe that it is probable that we have incurred a liability, and we cannot reasonably estimate any loss that might eventually be incurred. although we are vigorously defending these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is uncertain. 65 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) intellectual property-related claims on december 10, 2010, stryker corporation and related entities (stryker) filed suit against us in the u.s. district court for the western district of michigan, alleging that certain of our pulsavac plus wound debridement products infringe three u.s. patents assigned to stryker. the case was tried beginning on january 15, 2013, and on february 5, 2013, the jury found that we infringed certain claims of the subject patents. the jury awarded $70.0 million in monetary damages for lost profits. the jury also found that we willfully infringed the subject patents. we filed multiple post-trial motions, including a motion seeking a new trial. on august 7, 2013, the trial court issued a ruling denying all of our motions and awarded treble damages and attorneys fees to stryker. we filed a notice of appeal to the court of appeals for the federal circuit to seek reversal of both the jury verdict and the trial court rulings on our post-trial motions. that appeal is pending. we have not accrued an estimated loss related to this matter in our consolidated statement of earnings for the quarter ended december 31, 2013 or any prior period because we do not believe that it is probable that we have incurred a liability. although we believe we have strong grounds to reverse the trial court judgment, the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain. in the future we could be required to record a charge of up to $210.0 million plus interest and attorneys fees that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. regulatory matters in september 2012, we received a warning letter from the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) citing concerns relating to certain manufacturing and validation processes pertaining to trilogy &reg; acetabular system products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. we have provided detailed responses to the fda as to our corrective actions and will continue to work expeditiously to address the issues identified by the fda during inspections in ponce. as of december 31, 2013, the warning letter remains pending. until the violations are corrected, we may be subject to additional regulatory action by the fda, including seizure, injunction and/or civil monetary penalties. additionally, requests for certificates to foreign governments related to products manufactured at the ponce facility may not be granted and premarket approval applications for class iii devices to which the quality system regulation deviations are reasonably related will not be approved until the violations have been corrected. in addition to responding to the warning letter described above, we are in the process of addressing various fda form 483 inspectional observations at certain of our manufacturing facilities. the ultimate outcome of these matters is presently uncertain. 20. quarterly financial information (unaudited) (in millions, except per share data) 2013 quarter ended 2012 quarter ended mar jun sep dec mar jun sep dec net sales $ 1,138.9 $ 1,169.5 $ 1,074.3 $ 1,240.7 $ 1,140.7 $ 1,125.0 $ 1,025.5 $ 1,180.5 gross profit 846.0 845.9 745.5 899.9 852.0 843.1 769.8 881.6 net earnings of zimmer holdings, inc. 218.6 152.1 154.4 235.9 209.6 214.5 178.1 152.8 earnings per common share basic 1.30 0.90 0.91 1.38 1.18 1.22 1.02 0.88 diluted 1.28 0.89 0.90 1.36 1.17 1.22 1.02 0.88 the quarter ending december 31, 2012 included a $96.0 million goodwill impairment charge. 66 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a. controls and procedures we maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rule 13a-15(e) under the exchange act) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the sec rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. because of inherent limitations, disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of disclosure controls and procedures are met. our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level. during 2013, we transitioned work to a third-party service provider to outsource certain finance functions that historically had been performed in multiple countries throughout europe and in the u.s. we also centralized other finance functions that historically had been performed in a decentralized manner. this outsourcing and centralization are part of our ongoing operational excellence initiatives. also in 2013, we implemented and began to use new software to consolidate our worldwide financial information. this software implementation is part of our operational excellence initiatives in order to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of our financial reporting process. in connection with the outsourcing, centralization of finance functions, and software implementation and the resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of our internal control processes to ensure suitable controls over our financial reporting. there were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rule 13a-15(f) of the exchange act) that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. management report on internal control over financial reporting appears in this report at the conclusion of part ii, item 7a. item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2013, the audit committee of our board of directors approved the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform certain non-audit services related to certain tax matters. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the exchange act. 67 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on may 6, 2014 (the 2014 proxy statement ). we have adopted the zimmer code of ethics for chief executive officer and senior financial officers (the finance code of ethics ), a code of ethics that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and corporate controller, and other finance organization senior employees. the finance code of ethics is publicly available in the investor relations section of our website, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmer.com or directly at http://investor.zimmer.com. if we make any substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or chief accounting officer and corporate controller, we will disclose the nature of that amendment in the investor relations section of our website. item 11. executive compensation information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2014 proxy statement. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2014 proxy statement. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2014 proxy statement. item 14. principal accounting fees and services information required by this item is incorporated by reference from of our 2014 proxy statement. 68 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2013 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 9 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. risks relating to the proposed biomet merger and the combined company following the merger the following risk factors relate to certain risks and uncertainties associated with the pending biomet merger and the combined company following the merger. the following discussion does not, however, contain all risks and uncertainties that relate to biomet and its business on a standalone basis, which additional risks and uncertainties may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations following the completion of the biomet merger. there is no assurance when or if the merger will be completed. any delay in completing the merger may substantially reduce the benefits that we expect to obtain from the merger. completion of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions. there can be no assurance that we and lvb will be able to satisfy the closing conditions or that closing conditions beyond our control will be satisfied or waived. we and lvb can agree at any time to terminate the merger agreement, even though lvb stockholders have approved the merger, and we and lvb can also terminate the merger agreement under other specified circumstances. if the merger and the integration of the companies respective businesses are not completed within the expected timeframe, such delay may materially and adversely affect the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the merger and could result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the merger. we expect to incur substantial expenses related to the merger and the integration of biomet. we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and the integration of biomet. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll, manufacturing, marketing and employee benefits. while we expect to incur integration and restructuring costs following completion of the merger in 2015 that are estimated to exceed $400 million in the first two years post-merger, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. we and lvb may be unable to obtain the regulatory approvals required to complete the merger. completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other conditions, the expiration or termination of any waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, the approval of the european commission and the receipt of approval or expiration or termination of any waiting period under applicable antitrust, competition, fair trade or similar laws of japan. we and lvb are pursuing all required consents, orders and approvals in accordance with the merger agreement. these consents, 9 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report orders and approvals may impose conditions on or require divestitures relating to our or biomet divisions, operations or assets, or may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company business. the merger agreement requires us and lvb, among other things, to accept all such conditions, divestitures, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions that may be imposed by regulatory entities. such conditions, divestitures, requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions may jeopardize or delay completion of the merger, may reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger or may result in the abandonment of the merger. further, no assurance can be given that the required consents, orders and approvals will be obtained or that the required conditions to closing will be satisfied, and, even if all such consents, orders and approvals are obtained and such conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of such consents, orders and approvals. the pendency of the merger could have an adverse effect on our and/or biomet business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. the pendency of the merger could disrupt our and/or biomet businesses in the following ways, among others: our and/or biomet employees may experience uncertainty regarding their future roles in the combined company, which might adversely affect our and/or biomet ability to retain, recruit and motivate key personnel; the attention of our and/or biomet management may be directed towards the completion of the merger and other transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the day-to-day business operations of us and/or biomet, as applicable, and matters related to the merger may require commitments of time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that might have been beneficial to us and/or biomet, as applicable; and customers, suppliers and other third parties with business relationships with us and/or biomet may decide not to renew or may decide to seek to terminate, change and/or renegotiate their relationships with us and/or biomet as a result of the merger, whether pursuant to the terms of their existing agreements with us and/or biomet or otherwise. any of these matters could adversely affect the businesses of, or harm the financial condition, results of operations or business prospects of, us and/or biomet. failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our future business and financial results. if the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected. we will be subject to several risks, including the following: having to pay certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing and printing fees; and focusing our management on the merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us and our stockholders, without realizing any of the benefits of having the merger completed. we cannot assure you that, if the merger is not completed, these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business and financial results. successful integration of biomet with us and successful operation of the combined company are not assured. also, integrating our business with that of biomet may divert the attention of management away from operations. if the merger is completed, biomet will become an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of ours, but will initially continue its operations on a basis that is separate from our operations. there can be no assurance that after the merger biomet will be able to maintain and grow its business and operations. in addition, the market segments in which biomet operates may experience declines in demand and/or new competitors. integrating and coordinating certain aspects of the operations and personnel of biomet with ours will involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. this process will be time-consuming and expensive, will disrupt the businesses of both companies and may not result in the full benefits expected by us and biomet, including cost synergies expected to arise from supply chain efficiencies and overlapping general and administrative functions. the potential difficulties, and resulting costs and delays, include: managing a larger combined company; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; issues in integrating manufacturing, warehouse and distribution facilities, research and development and sales forces; difficulties attracting and retaining key personnel; loss of customers and suppliers and inability to attract new customers and suppliers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing, administration and other systems and processes; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the merger or biomet business. additionally, the integration of our and biomet operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on management and other internal resources. the diversion of management attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm the combined company business, financial condition and operating results. we will incur substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the merger and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations. in connection with the merger, we entered into a $7.66 billion bridge credit agreement and a $4.35 billion bank credit agreement. proceeds from the bank credit agreement and the anticipated issuance by us of up to $7.66 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (or, if senior unsecured notes are not issued and sold prior to the closing date of the merger, drawings under the bridge credit agreement) will be used to finance, in part, the cash consideration for the merger, pay fees and the expenses incurred in connection with the merger and pay off all of 10 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report biomet funded debt. our debt outstanding as of december 31, 2014 was approximately $1.43 billion and, immediately after the completion of the merger, the combined company debt is anticipated to be approximately $12.09 billion. as of december 31, 2014, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding capital leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months would, in the absence of the merger, have been approximately $64.0 million. as a result of the increase in debt related to the merger, demands on the combined company cash resources will increase after the completion of the merger. the increased level of debt could, among other things: require the combined company to dedicate a large portion of its cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of its debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit the combined company ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit the combined company flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which we operate; restrict the combined company ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; place the combined company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; adversely affect the combined company credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing the combined company indebtedness might increase and its ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired; adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and limit the combined company ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. if we are unable to obtain alternate financing through senior unsecured notes, it is unlikely that we will be able to repay the outstanding amounts under the bridge loan at maturity on the 364th day after completion of the merger. any debt incurred to refinance the bridge loan may be on unfavorable terms. the merger may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. although we anticipate that the merger will have an immediate accretive impact on the combined company adjusted earnings per share, this expectation is based on factors that may not be realized and estimates that may materially change. we could also encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors, such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated to result from the merger. in addition, we expect that lvb stockholders and holders of lvb equity-based awards immediately prior to the merger will own, in the aggregate, approximately 16% of our outstanding shares after the merger, based on the number of outstanding shares of our common stock on december 31, 2014. once additional shares are issued in the merger, the combined company earnings per share may be lower than our adjusted earnings per share would have been in the absence of the merger. all of these factors could cause dilution to earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger, and cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. there can be no assurance that any increase in adjusted earnings per share will occur, even over the long term. any increase in adjusted earnings per share as a result of the merger is likely to require us, among other things, to successfully manage the combined company operations to increase our consolidated earnings after the merger. risks relating to our business regardless of whether the proposed biomet merger is consummated our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 11 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the u.s. healthcare reform law includes provisions that may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the affordable care act), was signed into law in march 2010 and mandates health insurance coverage and other healthcare reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 to 2018. as part of the affordable care act, in january 2013 we began paying a 2.3 percent medical device excise tax on the vast majority of our u.s sales. we continue to identify ways to reduce spending in other areas to offset the earnings impact due to the tax. we have not been able to pass along the cost of the tax to hospitals, which continue to face cuts to their medicare reimbursement under the affordable care act and other legislation. nor have we been able to offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from the expansion of health insurance coverage because of the demographics of the current uninsured population. the medical device excise tax regulations and subsequent guidance from the u.s. department of treasury have not lessened the burden of complying with the excise tax statute. in addition, without the implementation of proper safeguards, the affordable care act medicare payment reforms, such as accountable care organizations and bundled payments, could provide additional incentives for healthcare providers to reduce spending on some of our medical device products and reduce utilization of hospital procedures that use our products. accordingly, while it is still too early to fully understand and predict the full impact of the affordable care act on our business, ongoing implementation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group 12 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations. compliance with the fda requirements, including the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda, which may result in observations on form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates to foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda may also recommend prosecution to the u.s. department of justice. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain manufacturing and validation processes pertaining to trilogy acetabular system products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. as of december 31, 2014, the warning letter remains pending. until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the fda, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding this and other fda regulatory matters can be found in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements (see part ii, item 8 of this report). our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. if we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our industry is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal physician payments sunshine act and similar state and foreign laws. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration (va) health programs. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived almost 50 percent of our net sales in 2014 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; 13 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds representing earnings of foreign subsidiaries may significantly impact our effective tax rates. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as previously reported, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the durom &reg; acetabular component ( durom cup) and certain products within the nexgen knee system. the majority of the durom cup cases are pending in a federal multidistrict litigation in the district of new jersey ( in re: zimmer durom hip cup products liability litigation ) and the majority of the nexgen knee system cases are pending in a federal multidistrict litigation in the northern district of illinois ( in re: zimmer nexgen knee implant products liability litigation ). we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. at any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights 14 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. we rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect the integrity of our information systems and data, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, third parties may attempt to gain unauthorized access to our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients or our proprietary information. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful or that systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required, under current u.s. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. we depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. we use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. these suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a 15 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report single source or a limited number of sources. a prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or outsource key manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products. the conflict minerals rule may adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, may increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and harm our reputation. we are subject to the sec rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. we filed a report on form sd with the sec regarding such matters on june 2, 2014 and are required to file on an annual basis going forward. this rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. in addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products. we have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. as a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity 30 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2014, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2015 through june 2017. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2014 were $1,289.8 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2014 were $306.3 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2014 were euro:usd 1.34, usd:swiss franc: 0.91, usd:japanese yen 97.30, british pound:usd 1.62, usd:canadian dollar 1.08, australian dollar:usd 0.89, usd:korean won 1,115, usd:swedish krona 6.74, usd:czech koruna 19.98, usd:thai baht 33.01, usd:taiwan dollar 29.48, usd:south african rand 11.11, usd:russian ruble 37.37 and usd:indian ruppee 67.14. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2014 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2017, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): currency average amount euro $ 53.7 swiss franc 31.3 japanese yen 27.2 british pound 15.0 canadian dollar 9.6 australian dollar 12.8 korean won 3.4 swedish krona 2.2 czech koruna 0.4 thai baht 1.0 taiwan dollars 2.0 south african rand 0.5 russian rubles 0.6 indian rupees 0.6 any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net assets in legal entities with non-u.s. dollar functional currencies of $2,113.5 million at december 31, 2014, primarily in euros, japanese yen and australian dollars. $1,221.0 million of the net asset exposure at december 31, 2014 related to goodwill recorded in the europe and asia pacific geographic segments. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. 31 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. we also have short-term and long-term investments in highly-rated corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, u.s. government treasury funds, municipal bonds, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations and our cash and cash equivalents. we have multiple fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements that we have designated as fair value hedges of the fixed interest rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. the total notional amounts are $250 million and $300 million for the senior notes due 2019 and 2021, respectively. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2019, we receive a fixed interest rate of 4.625 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 133 basis points. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2021, we receive a fixed interest rate of 3.375 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 99 basis points. the interest rate swap agreements are intended to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. the objective of the instruments is to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on cash and cash equivalents. these derivative instruments are designated as fair value hedges under gaap. changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in earnings and are offset by gains or losses on the underlying debt instrument. in 2014, we entered into forward starting interest rate swaps that we have designated as cash flow hedges of our anticipated issuance of senior notes related to the pending biomet merger that we anticipate will mature in march 2045. the forward starting interest rate swaps mitigate the risk of changes in interest rates prior to completion of the senior notes offering. the total notional amounts of the forward starting interest rate swaps are $1 billion and will settle in march 2015. on the forward starting interest rate swaps, we receive variable interest equal to three-month libor and pay a fixed interest weighted average rate of 3.01 percent. we will defer the effective portion of the forward starting interest rate swaps over the maturity period of the hedged senior notes, which is thirty years, and recognize any ineffective portion immediately in earnings. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2014, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the principal amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on net interest expense. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, derivative instruments, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly-rated financial institutions or highly-rated debt securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions or counterparties issuing the debt security fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, 32 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. the ongoing financial uncertainties in the euro zone impact the indirect credit exposure we have to those governments through their public hospitals. as of december 31, 2014, in greece, italy, portugal and spain, countries that have been widely recognized as presenting the highest risk, our gross short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable combined were $183.1 million. with allowances for doubtful accounts of $9.4 million recorded in those countries, the net balance was $173.7 million, representing 20 percent of our total consolidated short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable balance, net. italy and spain accounted for $164.4 million of that net amount. we are actively monitoring the situations in these countries. we maintain contact with customers in these countries on a regular basis. we continue to receive payments, albeit at a slower rate than in the past. we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate in these countries, as ultimately we believe the governments in these countries will be able to pay. to the extent the respective governments ability to fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 33 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework (2013) . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2014, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 34 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. pricewaterhousecoopers llp chicago, illinois february 23, 2015 36 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 net sales $4,673.3 $ 4,623.4 $ 4,471.7 cost of products sold 1,249.8 1,286.1 1,125.2 gross profit 3,423.5 3,337.3 3,346.5 research and development 188.3 204.2 225.6 selling, general and administrative 1,822.5 1,833.8 1,807.1 certain claims (note 19) 21.5 47.0 15.0 goodwill impairment (note 8) 96.0 special items (note 2) 356.5 216.7 155.4 operating expenses 2,388.8 2,301.7 2,299.1 operating profit 1,034.7 1,035.6 1,047.4 other expense (39.6 ) interest income 11.9 15.6 15.6 interest expense (63.1 ) (70.1 ) (72.9 ) earnings before income taxes 943.9 981.1 990.1 provision for income taxes 224.9 221.9 237.2 net earnings 719.0 759.2 752.9 less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1.1 ) (1.8 ) (2.1 ) net earnings of zimmer holdings, inc. $ 720.1 $ 761.0 $ 755.0 earnings per common share basic $ 4.26 $ 4.49 $ 4.32 earnings per common share diluted $ 4.19 $ 4.43 $ 4.29 weighted average common shares outstanding basic 169.0 169.6 174.9 diluted 171.7 171.8 176.0 cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.88 $ 0.80 $ 0.54 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 37 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 net earnings $ 719.0 $ 759.2 $ 752.9 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency cumulative translation adjustments (241.5 ) (44.4 ) 46.1 unrealized cash flow hedge gains, net of tax 55.9 33.4 10.9 reclassification adjustments on cash flow hedges, net of tax (18.9 ) (4.4 ) 3.3 reclassification adjustments on securities, net of tax (0.4 ) unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, net of tax (0.5 ) 0.1 0.4 adjustments to prior service cost and unrecognized actuarial assumptions, net of tax (75.8 ) 38.5 11.8 total other comprehensive income (loss) (281.2 ) 23.2 72.5 comprehensive income 437.8 782.4 825.4 comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1.0 ) (2.0 ) (2.2 ) comprehensive income attributable to zimmer holdings, inc. $ 438.8 $ 784.4 $ 827.6 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 38 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report consolidated balance sheets (in millions) as of december 31, 2014 2013 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,083.3 $ 1,080.6 short-term investments 612.5 727.0 accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts 912.1 936.6 inventories 1,169.0 1,074.5 prepaid expenses and other current assets 193.7 107.1 deferred income taxes 318.4 271.9 total current assets 4,289.0 4,197.7 property, plant and equipment, net 1,288.8 1,224.7 goodwill 2,514.2 2,611.2 intangible assets, net 603.5 707.7 other assets 939.2 839.3 total assets $ 9,634.7 $ 9,580.6 liabilities and stockholders equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 167.1 $ 146.3 income taxes 72.4 221.2 other current liabilities 798.5 664.1 total current liabilities 1,038.0 1,031.6 other long-term liabilities 648.6 576.6 long-term debt 1,425.5 1,672.3 total liabilities 3,112.1 3,280.5 commitments and contingencies (note 19) stockholders equity: common stock, $0.01 par value, one billion shares authorized, 268.4 million (264.3 million in 2013) issued 2.7 2.6 paid-in capital 4,330.7 4,000.6 retained earnings 8,285.2 7,712.7 accumulated other comprehensive income 85.9 367.1 treasury stock, 98.7 million shares (94.5 million shares in 2013) (6,183.7 ) (5,785.7 ) total zimmer holdings, inc. stockholders equity 6,520.8 6,297.3 noncontrolling interest 1.8 2.8 total stockholders equity 6,522.6 6,300.1 total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 9,634.7 $ 9,580.6 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 39 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of stockholders equity (in millions) zimmer holdings, inc. stockholders noncontrolling interest total stockholders equity common shares paid-in capital retained earnings accumulated other comprehensive income treasury shares number amount number amount balance january 1, 2012 255.9 $ 2.5 $ 3,399.2 $ 6,426.8 $ 271.4 (77.9 ) $ (4,592.7 ) $ 7.6 $ 5,514.8 net earnings 755.0 (2.1 ) 752.9 other comprehensive income 72.5 (0.1 ) 72.4 cash dividends declared (93.3 ) (93.3 ) stock compensation plans, including tax benefits 1.2 0.1 101.4 (2.6 ) 0.1 6.2 105.1 share repurchases (7.7 ) (485.6 ) (485.6 ) balance december 31, 2012 257.1 2.6 3,500.6 7,085.9 343.9 (85.5 ) (5,072.1 ) 5.4 5,866.3 net earnings 761.0 (1.8 ) 759.2 other comprehensive income 23.2 (0.2 ) 23.0 purchase of additional shares from noncontrolling interest (1.1 ) (0.6 ) (1.7 ) cash dividends declared (135.4 ) (135.4 ) stock compensation plans, including tax benefits 7.2 501.1 1.2 0.1 5.4 507.7 share repurchases (9.1 ) (719.0 ) (719.0 ) balance december 31, 2013 264.3 2.6 4,000.6 7,712.7 367.1 (94.5 ) (5,785.7 ) 2.8 6,300.1 net earnings 720.1 (1.1 ) 719.0 other comprehensive loss (281.2 ) 0.1 (281.1 ) cash dividends declared (148.6 ) (148.6 ) stock compensation plans, including tax benefits 4.1 0.1 330.1 1.0 2.5 333.7 share repurchases (4.2 ) (400.5 ) (400.5 ) balance december 31, 2014 268.4 $ 2.7 $ 4,330.7 $ 8,285.2 $ 85.9 (98.7 ) $ (6,183.7 ) $ 1.8 $ 6,522.6 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 40 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities: net earnings $ 719.0 $ 759.2 $ 752.9 adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation and amortization 375.8 358.5 363.1 goodwill impairment 96.0 share-based compensation 49.4 48.5 55.0 income tax benefit from stock option exercises 37.2 38.4 11.0 excess income tax benefit from stock option exercises (11.1 ) (8.6 ) (2.7 ) inventory step-up 5.4 8.0 4.8 deferred income tax provision (84.2 ) (126.2 ) (64.8 ) changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquired assets and liabilities income taxes payable (51.9 ) 96.8 59.2 receivables (40.4 ) (74.3 ) (45.5 ) inventories (154.1 ) (128.4 ) (67.5 ) accounts payable and accrued liabilities 120.1 38.3 47.8 other assets and liabilities 87.6 (47.1 ) (57.4 ) net cash provided by operating activities 1,052.8 963.1 1,151.9 cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities: additions to instruments (197.4 ) (192.9 ) (148.9 ) additions to other property, plant and equipment (144.9 ) (100.0 ) (114.7 ) purchases of investments (1,350.9 ) (732.7 ) (1,130.1 ) sales of investments 1,282.2 830.8 878.5 business combination investments (54.3 ) (74.2 ) (59.0 ) investments in other assets (4.1 ) (13.5 ) (17.9 ) net cash used in investing activities (469.4 ) (282.5 ) (592.1 ) cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities: payment of senior notes (250.0 ) net proceeds (payments) under revolving credit facilities 2.3 (97.5 ) (50.1 ) proceeds from term loans 147.3 dividends paid to stockholders (145.5 ) (132.4 ) (94.4 ) debt issuance costs (64.1 ) (3.3 ) equity issuance costs (0.4 ) proceeds from employee stock compensation plans 284.7 474.8 46.9 excess income tax benefit from stock option exercises 11.1 8.6 2.7 purchase of additional shares from noncontrolling interest (1.8 ) repurchase of common stock (400.5 ) (719.0 ) (485.6 ) net cash used in financing activities (562.4 ) (467.3 ) (436.5 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (18.3 ) (17.0 ) (7.3 ) increase in cash and cash equivalents 2.7 196.3 116.0 cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 1,080.6 884.3 768.3 cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 1,083.3 $ 1,080.6 $ 884.3 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 41 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements 1. business we design, develop, manufacture and market orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, biologics, dental implants and related surgical products. we also provide other healthcare related services. orthopaedic reconstructive devices restore function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. dental reconstructive implants restore function and aesthetics in patients who have lost teeth due to trauma or disease. spinal devices are utilized by orthopaedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in the treatment of degenerative diseases, deformities and trauma in all regions of the spine. trauma products are devices used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the body natural healing process. our related surgical products include surgical supplies and instruments designed to aid in orthopaedic surgical procedures and post-operation rehabilitation. we have operations in more than 25 countries and market our products in more than 100 countries. we operate in a single industry but have three reportable geographic segments, the americas, europe and asia pacific. the words we, us, our and similar words refer to zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries. zimmer holdings refers to the parent company only. on april 24, 2014, we entered into a definitive agreement to merge with lvb, the parent company of biomet, in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $13.35 billion. we will pay $10.35 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments, and issue 32.7 million shares of our common stock which had a value of approximately $3.0 billion, based on a stock price of $91.73 per share using the five day volume weighted average price immediately preceding the signing of the agreement. in connection with the merger, we will pay off all of lvb outstanding funded debt, and the aggregate cash merger consideration will be reduced by such amount. the merger, which is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2015. the merger will position the combined company as a leader in the $45 billion musculoskeletal industry. biomet product portfolio includes knee and hip reconstructive products; sports medicine, extremities and trauma products; spine, bone healing and microfixation products; dental reconstructive products; and cement, biologics and other products. the combination will enhance enterprise diversification with broader franchises in the knee, hip, surgical, spine and dental categories, as well as in the faster-growing sports medicine, extremities and trauma categories. we expect to fund the cash portion of the purchase price with existing cash on hand, as well as proceeds obtained from a committed $3.0 billion senior unsecured term loan and up to $7.66 billion in senior unsecured notes we intend to issue. in may 2014, we entered into a $7.66 billion 364-day bridge credit facility. to the extent the senior unsecured notes are not issued and sold on or prior to the closing date of the merger, we intend to draw on the bridge credit facility to finance, in part, the cash consideration for the merger and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the merger. the commitments of the bridge lenders to provide the bridge loan will be permanently reduced dollar-for-dollar by the amount of net cash proceeds we receive from the issuance of senior unsecured notes. see note 11 and item 7 in this form 10-k for further information regarding these debt instruments. 2. significant accounting policies basis of presentation the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of zimmer holdings and its subsidiaries in which it holds a controlling financial interest. all significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. certain amounts in the 2013 and 2012 consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2014 presentation. use of estimates the consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. foreign currency translation the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars using period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates for operating results. unrealized translation gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. when a transaction is denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary functional currency, we recognize a transaction gain or loss when the transaction is settled. foreign currency transaction gains and losses included in net earnings for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were not significant. revenue recognition we sell product through three principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, referred to as direct channel accounts; 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers; and 3) directly to dental practices and dental laboratories. the direct channel accounts represented approximately 75 percent of our net sales in 2014. through this channel, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers so that products are available when needed for surgical procedures. no revenue is recognized upon the placement of inventory into consignment as we retain title and maintain the inventory on our balance sheet. upon implantation, we issue an invoice and revenue is recognized. pricing for products is generally predetermined by contracts with customers, agents acting on behalf of customer groups or by government regulatory bodies, depending on the market. 42 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) price discounts under group purchasing contracts are generally linked to volume of implant purchases by customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. at negotiated thresholds within a contract buying period, price discounts may increase. sales to stocking distributors, healthcare dealers, dental practices and dental laboratories accounted for approximately 25 percent of our net sales in 2014. with these types of sales, revenue is recognized when title to product passes, either upon shipment of the product or in some cases upon implantation of the product. product is generally sold at contractually fixed prices for specified periods. payment terms vary by customer, but are typically less than 90 days. if sales incentives are earned by a customer for purchasing a specified amount of our product, we estimate whether such incentives will be achieved and, if so, recognize these incentives as a reduction in revenue in the same period the underlying revenue transaction is recognized. occasionally products are returned and, accordingly, we maintain an estimated sales return reserve that is recorded as a reduction in revenue. product returns were not significant for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis and excluded from revenues. shipping and handling amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling of products are reflected in net sales and are not significant. expenses incurred related to shipping and handling of products are reflected in selling, general and administrative and were $181.9 million, $163.6 million and $139.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. research and development we expense all research and development costs as incurred. research and development costs include salaries, prototypes, depreciation of equipment used in research and development, consultant fees and service fees paid to collaborative partners. where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under research and development arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved. litigation we record a liability for contingent losses, including future legal costs, settlements and judgments, when we consider it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. special items we recognize expenses resulting directly from our business combinations, employee termination benefits, certain r&amp;d agreements, certain contract terminations, consulting and professional fees and asset impairment or loss on disposal charges connected with global restructuring, operational and quality excellence initiatives, and other items as special items in our consolidated statement of earnings. special items included (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 impairment/loss on disposal of assets $ 32.4 $ 10.9 $ 14.6 consulting and professional fees 176.7 99.1 90.1 employee severance and retention, including share-based compensation acceleration 0.9 14.2 8.2 dedicated project personnel 50.8 34.0 15.1 certain r&amp;d agreements 4.5 0.8 relocated facilities 0.7 3.6 1.8 distributor acquisitions 0.6 0.4 0.8 certain litigation matters 70.0 26.9 13.7 contract terminations 6.2 3.9 6.6 contingent consideration adjustments 0.6 9.0 (2.8 ) accelerated software amortization 6.0 6.0 4.5 other 7.1 7.9 2.8 special items $ 356.5 $ 216.7 $ 155.4 impairment/loss on disposal of assets relates to impairment of intangible assets that were acquired in business combinations or impairment of or a loss on the disposal of other assets. this caption also includes the effect of reducing the estimated useful life of certain intangible assets to zero, which resulted in the remaining net book values of those assets being amortized immediately. consulting and professional fees relate to third-party consulting, professional fees and contract labor related to our quality and operational excellence initiatives, third-party consulting fees related to certain information system implementations, third-party integration consulting performed in a variety of areas such as tax, compliance, logistics and human resources for our business combinations and pending merger with biomet, third-party fees related to severance and termination benefits matters and legal fees related to certain litigation matters. our quality and operational excellence initiatives are company-wide and include improvements in quality, distribution, sourcing, manufacturing and information technology, among other areas. in 2014, 2013 and 2012, we eliminated positions as we reduced management layers, restructured certain areas, announced closures of certain facilities, and commenced initiatives to focus on business opportunities that best support our strategic priorities. as a result of these changes in our work force and headcount reductions in connection with acquisitions, we incurred expenses related to severance benefits, redundant salaries as we worked through transition periods, share-based compensation acceleration and other employee termination-related costs. the majority of these termination benefits were provided in accordance with our existing or local government policies and are considered 43 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) ongoing benefits. these costs were accrued when they became probable and estimable and were recorded as part of other current liabilities. the majority of these costs were paid during the year they were incurred. dedicated project personnel expenses include the salary, benefits, travel expenses and other costs directly associated with employees who are 100 percent dedicated to our operational and quality excellence initiatives or integration of acquired businesses. certain r&amp;d agreements relate to agreements with upfront payments to obtain intellectual property to be used in r&amp;d projects that have no alternative future use in other projects. relocated facilities expenses are the moving costs and the lease expenses incurred during the relocation period in connection with relocating certain facilities. over the past few years we have acquired a number of u.s. and foreign-based distributors. we have incurred various costs related to the consummation and integration of those businesses. certain litigation matters relate to net expenses recognized during the year for the estimated or actual settlement of certain pending litigation and similar claims, including matters where we recognized income from a settlement on more favorable terms than our previous estimate, or we reduced our estimate of a previously recorded contingent liability. these litigation matters have included royalty disputes, patent litigation matters, commercial litigation matters and matters arising from our acquisitions of certain competitive distributorships in prior years. contract termination costs relate to terminated agreements in connection with the integration of acquired companies and changes to our distribution model as part of business restructuring and operational excellence initiatives. the terminated contracts primarily relate to sales agents and distribution agreements. contingent consideration adjustments represent the changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations to be paid to the prior owners of acquired businesses. accelerated software amortization is the incremental amortization resulting from a reduction in the estimated life of certain software. due to an approved plan to replace certain software, the estimated economic useful life of the existing software was decreased to represent the period of time expected to implement replacement software. as a result, the amortization from the shortened life of this software is substantially higher than the previous amortization being recognized. cash and cash equivalents we consider all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. the carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents are valued at cost, which approximates their fair value. investments we invest our excess cash and cash equivalents in debt securities. our investments include corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit, and are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. available-for-sale debt securities are recorded at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. investments with a contractual maturity of less than one year are classified as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheet, or in other non-current assets if the contractual maturity is greater than one year. changes in fair value for available-for-sale securities are recorded, net of taxes, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet. we review our investments for other-than-temporary impairment at each reporting period. if an unrealized loss for any investment is considered to be other-than-temporary, the loss will be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings in the period the determination is made. see note 7 for more information regarding our investments. accounts receivable accounts receivable consists of trade and other miscellaneous receivables. we grant credit to customers in the normal course of business and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses. we determine the allowance for doubtful accounts by geographic market and take into consideration historical credit experience, creditworthiness of the customer and other pertinent information. we make concerted efforts to collect all accounts receivable, but sometimes we have to write-off the account against the allowance when we determine the account is uncollectible. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $22.3 million and $22.7 million as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in first-out basis. property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of ten to forty years for buildings and improvements and three to eight years for machinery and equipment. maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. we review property, plant and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. an impairment loss would be recognized when estimated future undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset are less than its carrying amount. an impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its fair value. software costs we capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use when both the preliminary project stage is completed and it is probable that the software will be used as intended. capitalized software costs generally include external direct 44 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) costs of materials and services utilized in developing or obtaining computer software and compensation and related benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software project. capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line or weighted average estimated user basis when the software is ready for its intended use over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate three to fifteen years. instruments instruments are hand-held devices used by surgeons during total joint replacement and other surgical procedures. instruments are recognized as long-lived assets and are included in property, plant and equipment. undeployed instruments are carried at cost or realizable value. instruments in the field are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on average estimated useful lives, determined principally in reference to associated product life cycles, primarily five years. we review instruments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an instrument may not be recoverable. depreciation of instruments is recognized as selling, general and administrative expense. goodwill goodwill is not amortized but is subject to annual impairment tests. goodwill has been assigned to reporting units. we perform annual impairment tests by either comparing a reporting unit estimated fair value to its carrying amount or doing a qualitative assessment of a reporting unit fair value from the last quantitative assessment to determine if there is potential impairment. we may do a qualitative assessment when the results of the previous quantitative test indicated the reporting unit estimated fair value was significantly in excess of the carrying value of its net assets and we do not believe there have been significant changes in the reporting unit operations that would significantly decrease its estimated fair value or significantly increase its net assets. if a quantitative assessment is performed, the fair value of the reporting unit and the implied fair value of goodwill are determined based upon a discounted cash flow analysis and/or use of a market approach by looking at market values of comparable companies. significant assumptions are incorporated into our discounted cash flow analyses such as estimated growth rates and risk-adjusted discount rates. we perform this test in the fourth quarter of the year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the reporting unit assets may not be recoverable. if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit goodwill. during the year ended december 31, 2012, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $96.0 million related to our u.s. spine reporting unit. we did not record a goodwill impairment charge during the years ended december 31, 2014 or 2013. see notes 8 and 9 for more information regarding goodwill and goodwill impairment. intangible assets intangible assets are initially measured at their fair value. we have determined the fair value of our intangible assets either by the fair value of the consideration exchanged for the intangible asset or the estimated after-tax discounted cash flows expected to be generated from the intangible asset. intangible assets with an indefinite life, including certain trademarks and trade names, are not amortized. indefinite life intangible assets are assessed annually to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite life. intangible assets with a finite life, including core and developed technology, certain trademarks and trade names, customer-related intangibles, intellectual property rights and patents and licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life, ranging from less than one year to 40 years. intangible assets with a finite life are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. intangible assets with an indefinite life are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. the amount of the impairment loss to be recorded would be determined based upon the excess of the asset carrying value over its fair value. the fair values of indefinite lived intangible assets are determined based upon a discounted cash flow analysis using the relief from royalty method or a qualitative assessment may be performed for any changes to the asset fair value from the last quantitative assessment. the relief from royalty method estimates the cost savings associated with owning, rather than licensing, assets. significant assumptions are incorporated into these discounted cash flow analyses such as estimated growth rates, royalty rates and risk-adjusted discount rates. we may do a qualitative assessment when the results of the previous quantitative test indicated that the asset fair value was significantly in excess of its carrying value. in determining the useful lives of intangible assets, we consider the expected use of the assets and the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, anticipated technological advances, changes in surgical techniques, market influences and other economic factors. for technology-based intangible assets, we consider the expected life cycles of products, absent unforeseen technological advances, which incorporate the corresponding technology. trademarks and trade names that do not have a wasting characteristic (i.e., there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which limit the useful life) are assigned an indefinite life. trademarks and trade names that are related to products expected to be phased out are assigned lives consistent with the period in which the products bearing each brand are expected to be sold. for customer relationship intangible assets, we assign useful lives based upon historical levels of customer attrition. intellectual property rights are assigned useful lives that approximate the contractual life of any related patent or the period for which we maintain exclusivity over the intellectual property. 45 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) income taxes we account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. the effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. we reduce our deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. in making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operations. in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred income tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, we would make an adjustment to the valuation allowance which would reduce the provision for income taxes. federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the u.s. we operate on a global basis and are subject to numerous and complex tax laws and regulations. our income tax filings are regularly under audit in multiple federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. income tax audits may require an extended period of time to reach resolution and may result in significant income tax adjustments when interpretation of tax laws or allocation of company profits is disputed. because income tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, we record accruals representing management best estimate of the probable resolution of these matters. to the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome. derivative financial instruments we measure all derivative instruments at fair value and report them on our consolidated balance sheet as assets or liabilities. we maintain written policies and procedures that permit, under appropriate circumstances and subject to proper authorization, the use of derivative financial instruments solely for hedging purposes. the use of derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes is prohibited by our policy. see note 13 for more information regarding our derivative and hedging activities. other comprehensive income other comprehensive income (oci) refers to revenues, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from net earnings as these amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to stockholders equity. our oci is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and amortization of prior service costs and unrecognized gains and losses in actuarial assumptions. treasury stock we account for repurchases of common stock under the cost method and present treasury stock as a reduction of stockholders equity. we reissue common stock held in treasury only for limited purposes. noncontrolling interest in 2011, we made an investment in a company in which we acquired a controlling financial interest, but not 100 percent of the equity. in 2013, we purchased additional shares of the company from the minority shareholders. further information related to the noncontrolling interests of that investment has not been provided as it is not significant to our consolidated financial statements. accounting pronouncements in may 2014, the financial accounting standards board issued accounting standard update (asu) no. 2014-09 revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606). the asu provides a five-step model for revenue recognition that all industries will apply to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of a good or service. the asu will be effective for us beginning january 1, 2017. we are in the initial phases of our adoption plans and, accordingly, we are unable to estimate any effect this may have on our revenue recognition practices. there are no other recently issued accounting pronouncements that we have not yet adopted that are expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 3. share-based compensation our share-based payments primarily consist of stock options and restricted stock units (rsus). share-based compensation expense was as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 stock options $ 24.2 $ 24.7 $ 32.4 rsus 25.2 23.8 22.6 total expense, pre-tax 49.4 48.5 55.0 tax benefit related to awards (15.5 ) (15.6 ) (16.6 ) total expense, net of tax $ 33.9 $ 32.9 $ 38.4 stock options we had two equity compensation plans in effect at december 31, 2014: the 2009 stock incentive plan (2009 plan) and the stock plan for non-employee directors. the 2009 plan succeeded the 2006 stock incentive plan (2006 plan) and the teamshare stock option plan (teamshare plan). no further awards have been granted under the 2006 plan or under the teamshare plan since may 2009, and shares remaining available for grant under those plans have been merged into 46 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the 2009 plan. vested stock options previously granted under the 2006 plan, the teamshare plan and another prior plan, the 2001 stock incentive plan, remained outstanding as of december 31, 2014. we have reserved the maximum number of shares of common stock available for award under the terms of each of these plans. we have registered 57.9 million shares of common stock under these plans. the 2009 plan provides for the grant of nonqualified stock options and incentive stock options, long-term performance awards in the form of performance shares or units, restricted stock, rsus and stock appreciation rights. the compensation and management development committee of the board of directors determines the grant date for annual grants under our equity compensation plans. the date for annual grants under the 2009 plan to our executive officers is expected to occur in the first quarter of each year following the earnings announcements for the previous quarter and full year. the stock plan for non-employee directors provides for awards of stock options, restricted stock and rsus to non-employee directors. it has been our practice to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options from previously unissued shares, except in limited circumstances where they are issued from treasury stock. the total number of awards which may be granted in a given year and/or over the life of the plan under each of our equity compensation plans is limited. at december 31, 2014, an aggregate of 8.7 million shares were available for future grants and awards under these plans. stock options granted to date under our plans vest over four years and have a maximum contractual life of 10 years. as established under our equity compensation plans, vesting may accelerate upon retirement after the first anniversary date of the award if certain criteria are met. we recognize expense related to stock options on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, less awards expected to be forfeited using estimated forfeiture rates. due to the accelerated retirement provisions, the requisite service period of our stock options range from one to four years. stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of our common stock on the date of grant, except in limited circumstances where local law may dictate otherwise. a summary of stock option activity for the year ended december 31, 2014 is as follows (options in thousands): stock options weighted average exercise price weighted average remaining contractual life intrinsic value (in millions) outstanding at january 1, 2014 10,741 $ 70.06 options granted 1,193 94.58 options exercised (3,811 ) 73.55 options forfeited (235 ) 75.84 options expired (42 ) 71.25 outstanding at december 31, 2014 7,846 $ 71.94 5.5 $ 325.5 vested or expected to vest as of december 31, 2014 7,485 $ 71.47 5.4 $ 314.0 exercisable at december 31, 2014 4,927 $ 67.91 3.9 $ 224.2 we use a black-scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of our stock options. for stock options granted in 2012, expected volatility was derived from the implied volatility of traded options on our stock that were actively traded around the grant date of the stock options with exercise prices similar to the stock options and maturities of over one year. in 2013 and 2014, we used a combination of historical volatility and implied volatility because the traded options that were actively traded around the grant date of our stock options did not have maturities of over one year. the expected term of the stock options has been derived from historical employee exercise behavior. the risk-free interest rate was determined using the implied yield currently available for zero-coupon u.s. government issues with a remaining term approximating the expected life of the options. the dividend yield was determined by using an estimated annual dividend and dividing it by the market price of our stock on the grant date. 47 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table presents information regarding the weighted average fair value for stock options granted, the assumptions used to determine fair value, and the intrinsic value of options exercised in the indicated year: for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 dividend yield 0.9 % 1.1 % 1.1 % volatility 25.2 % 24.5 % 25.6 % risk-free interest rate 1.8 % 1.1 % 1.5 % expected life (years) 5.5 6.1 6.1 weighted average fair value of options granted $ 22.59 $ 16.33 $ 15.40 intrinsic value of options exercised (in millions) $ 99.6 $ 97.9 $ 17.1 as of december 31, 2014, there was $33.8 million of unrecognized share-based payment expense related to nonvested stock options granted under our plans. that expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years. rsus we have awarded rsus to our employees. the terms of the awards have been three to four years. some of the awards have only service conditions while some have performance and market conditions in addition to service conditions. the service condition-only awards vest ratably on the anniversary date of the award. the awards that have performance and market conditions vest all at once on the third anniversary date. future service conditions may be waived if an employee retires after the first anniversary date of the award, but performance and market conditions continue to apply. accordingly, the requisite service period used for share-based payment expense on our rsus range from one to four years. a summary of nonvested rsu activity for the year ended december 31, 2014 is as follows (rsus in thousands): rsus weighted average grant date fair value outstanding at january 1, 2014 1,454 $ 67.42 granted 455 94.48 vested (306 ) 61.46 forfeited (128 ) 72.54 outstanding at december 31, 2014 1,475 76.60 for the rsus with service conditions only, the fair value of the awards was determined based upon the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. for the rsus with market conditions, a monte carlo valuation technique was used to simulate the market conditions of the awards. the outcome of the simulation was used to determine the fair value of the awards. we are required to estimate the number of rsus that will vest and recognize share-based payment expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. as of december 31, 2014, we estimate that approximately 866,000 outstanding rsus will vest. if our estimate were to change in the future, the cumulative effect of the change in estimate will be recorded in that period. based upon the number of rsus that we expect to vest, the unrecognized share-based payment expense as of december 31, 2014 was $31.7 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years. the fair value of rsus vesting during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 based upon our stock price on the date of vesting was $29.3 million, $32.5 million and $18.9 million, respectively. 4. inventories inventories consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 2013 finished goods $ 899.9 $ 817.0 work in progress 87.8 77.4 raw materials 181.3 180.1 inventories $ 1,169.0 $ 1,074.5 amounts charged to the consolidated statement of earnings for excess and obsolete inventory in the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $51.8 million, $112.0 million and $55.1 million, respectively. the 2013 period was higher due to our decision to discontinue certain products. 5. property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 2013 land $ 20.4 $ 21.7 building and equipment 1,283.4 1,353.1 capitalized software costs 294.7 272.6 instruments 1,696.3 1,610.6 construction in progress 115.8 58.2 3,410.6 3,316.2 accumulated depreciation (2,121.8 ) (2,091.5 ) property, plant and equipment, net $ 1,288.8 $ 1,224.7 depreciation expense was $268.6 million, $262.6 million and $266.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 48 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 6. acquisitions we made a number of business acquisitions during the years 2014, 2013 and 2012. in october 2014, we acquired etex holdings, inc. (etex). the etex acquisition enhanced our biologics portfolio through the addition of etex bone void filler products. in may 2013, we acquired the business assets of knee creations, llc (knee creations). the knee creations acquisition enhanced our product portfolio of joint preservation solutions. in june 2013, we acquired normed medizin-technik gmbh (normed). the normed acquisition strengthened our extremities and trauma product portfolios and brought new product development capabilities in the foot and ankle and hand and wrist markets. in january 2012, we acquired synvasive technology, inc. (synvasive). the synvasive acquisition enhanced our product portfolio through the addition of the stablecut &reg; surgical saw blades, as well as the elibra &reg; dynamic knee balancing system tm for soft tissue balancing. in october 2012, we acquired dornoch medical systems, inc. (dornoch). the dornoch acquisition enhanced our product portfolio through the addition of a medical waste fluid management and disposal technology. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in our consolidated results of operations subsequent to the transaction dates, and the respective assets and liabilities of the acquired companies have been recorded at their estimated fair values in our consolidated statement of financial position as of the transaction dates, with any excess purchase price being recorded as goodwill. pro forma financial information and other information required by gaap have not been included as the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, did not have a material impact upon our financial position or results of operations. 7. investments we invest in short and long-term investments classified as available-for-sale securities. information regarding our investments is as follows (in millions): gross unrealized fair value amortized cost gains losses as of december 31, 2014 corporate debt securities $ 516.9 $ 0.1 $ (0.5 ) $ 516.5 u.s. government and agency debt securities 194.3 194.3 commercial paper 57.8 57.8 certificates of deposit 100.3 100.3 total short and long-term investments $ 869.3 $ 0.1 $ (0.5 ) $ 868.9 as of december 31, 2013 corporate debt securities $ 457.6 $ 0.4 $ (0.1 ) $ 457.9 u.s. government and agency debt securities 211.1 0.1 211.2 foreign government debt securities 3.1 3.1 commercial paper 68.3 68.3 certificates of deposit 67.2 67.2 total short and long-term investments $ 807.3 $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ 807.7 the amortized cost and fair value of our available-for-sale fixed-maturity securities by contractual maturity are as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 amortized cost fair value due in one year or less $ 612.6 $ 612.5 due after one year through two years 256.7 256.4 total $ 869.3 $ 868.9 49 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 8. fair value measurements of assets and liabilities the following financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 fair value measurements at reporting date using: description recorded balance quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) assets available-for-sale securities corporate debt securities $ 516.5 $ $ 516.5 $ u.s. government and agency debt securities 194.3 194.3 commercial paper 57.8 57.8 certificates of deposit 100.3 100.3 total available-for-sale securities 868.9 868.9 derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts and options 125.5 125.5 interest rate swaps 24.0 24.0 $ 1,018.4 $ $ 1,018.4 $ liabilities derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts and options 1.7 1.7 forward starting interest rate swaps 59.3 59.3 $ 61.0 $ $ 61.0 $ as of december 31, 2013 fair value measurements at reporting date using: description recorded balance quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) assets available-for-sale securities corporate debt securities $ 457.9 $ $ 457.9 $ u.s. government and agency debt securities 211.2 211.2 foreign government debt securities 3.1 3.1 commercial paper 68.3 68.3 certificates of deposit 67.2 67.2 total available-for-sale securities 807.7 807.7 derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts and options 68.7 68.7 interest rate swaps 16.3 16.3 $ 892.7 $ $ 892.7 $ liabilities derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts and options 20.6 20.6 interest rate swaps 7.0 7.0 $ 27.6 $ $ 27.6 $ we value our available-for-sale securities using a market approach based on broker prices for identical assets in over-the-counter markets and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. we value our foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options using a market approach based on foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. we value our interest rate swaps using a market approach based on publicly available market yield curves and the terms of our swaps and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. 50 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following nonfinancial assets were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis (in millions): fair value measurements using: description total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) total losses year ended december 31, 2014 indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 34.2 $ $ $ 34.2 $ 14.2 year ended december 31, 2013 indefinite-lived intangible assets $ 21.0 $ $ $ 21.0 $ 2.8 year ended december 31, 2012 goodwill $ 41.0 $ $ $ 41.0 $ 96.0 indefinite-lived intangible assets 24.2 24.2 11.6 we conduct our annual goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of every year or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. in 2012, it was determined that our u.s. spine reporting unit carrying value was in excess of its fair value. the goodwill for this reporting unit was written down to its implied fair value of $41.0 million, resulting in a $96.0 million non-cash impairment charge. the implied fair value of goodwill equals the estimated fair value of a reporting unit minus the fair value of the reporting unit net assets. in determining the implied fair value of the u.s. spine reporting unit goodwill, we used unobservable inputs to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and its assets and liabilities. fair value was determined using a weighting of income and market approaches. fair value under the income approach was determined by discounting to present value the estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit. fair value under the market approach utilized the guideline public company methodology, which uses valuation indicators from publicly traded companies that are similar to our u.s. spine reporting unit and considers control premiums that would result from a sale of the reporting unit and the level of assets in the reporting unit versus the comparable companies. in estimating the future cash flows of the reporting unit, we utilized a combination of market and company specific inputs that a market participant would use in assessing the fair value of the reporting unit. the primary market input was revenue growth rates. these rates were based upon historical trends and estimated future growth drivers such as an aging global population, obesity and more active lifestyles. significant company specific inputs included assumptions regarding how the reporting unit could leverage operating expenses as revenue grows and the impact any new products will have on revenues. under the guideline public company methodology, we took into consideration specific risk differences between our reporting unit and the comparable companies, such as recent financial performance, size risks and product portfolios, among other considerations. based upon our reporting unit recent financial performance, market share and product portfolio, we valued the reporting unit near the bottom of the valuation indicators of the comparable companies. the fair value of the reporting unit assets and liabilities were determined by using the same methods that are used in business combination purchase accounting. factors that contributed to the 2012 impairment of the u.s. spine reporting unit included broader market issues as well as company specific issues. the u.s. spine market was under pressure due to a constrained economic environment leading to continuing high unemployment and payer pushback on the necessity of certain procedures. additionally, pricing was declining across the industry. company specific issues included turnover with our independent sales agents and lack of execution in developing new, competitive products which resulted in a less than optimal product portfolio in our u.s. spine reporting unit. before the economic downturn in 2008, we estimated the u.s. spine market was growing in the low double digits, but declined to flat or in the low single digits in 2012. previous goodwill impairment tests forecasted some recovery in the market which did not occur. as we completed our annual operating plan in the fourth quarter of 2012, it became clearer that the u.s. spine market recovery would take longer than we planned, including the persistence of significant negative pricing pressures. additionally, we concluded that new product introductions made in 2012 would not have as significant of a positive effect as we had previously forecasted. as a result, we tempered our expectations of recovery in the u.s. market and for our u.s. spine reporting unit and recognized an impairment charge. in our 2013 and 2014 annual goodwill impairment tests of our u.s. spine reporting unit, we concluded no impairment charge was necessary. in our 2014 annual impairment test, the u.s. spine reporting unit estimated fair value was in excess of its carrying value of net assets by 24 percent. we have four other reporting units with goodwill assigned to them. we estimate the fair value of those reporting units using the income approach by discounting to present value the estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit or a combination of the income approach and market approach utilizing the guideline public company methodology. due to challenging market conditions associated with our u.s. dental reporting unit, our 2013 annual impairment test indicated the estimated fair value of the u.s. dental reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value of net assets by only 11 percent. for the annual impairment test in 2014, the goodwill balance of 51 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the u.s. dental reporting unit was $169.1 million. in our 2014 annual impairment test, due to improved operating performance and improving macroenomic conditions, including higher valuation indicators used in our market approach, the u.s. dental reporting unit estimated fair value was in excess of its carrying value of net assets by 24 percent. in 2014, for our three other reporting units annual impairment test, we performed a qualitative assessment of changes in fair value from the 2013 income approach. a qualitative assessment was performed because the estimated fair value of each of the reporting units was significantly in excess of the carrying value of its net assets in the 2013 impairment test. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our u.s. spine and u.s. dental reporting units as well as our other three reporting units in our interim and annual reporting periods. if estimated cash flows for these reporting units decrease, we may be required to record further impairment charges in the future. factors that could result in our cash flows being lower than our current estimates include: 1) decreased revenues caused by unforeseen changes in the healthcare market, or our inability to generate new product revenue from our research and development activities, and 2) our inability to achieve the estimated operating margins in our forecasts due to unforeseen factors. additionally, changes in the broader economic environment could cause changes to our estimated discount rates or comparable company valuation indicators, which may impact our estimated fair values. in 2014, 2013 and 2012, we also recorded $14.2 million, $2.8 million and $11.6 million, respectively, of impairment charges in special items related to certain indefinite lived intangible assets. the impairment was a result of lower future estimated revenues from products using certain trademarks. the lower future estimated revenues resulted from new competitive products in the marketplace, a trend towards newer, less invasive products, a decrease in projected revenues in u.s. dollar terms due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar versus foreign currencies, negative publicity in the marketplace related to certain hip devices and our challenges in the global spine market. effective in the fourth quarter of 2014 the intangible assets that were impaired have been reclassified as a finite lived intangible asset and will be amortized. 9. goodwill and other intangible assets the following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill (in millions): americas europe asia pacific total balance at january 1, 2013 goodwill $ 1,623.9 $ 1,128.6 $ 192.3 $ 2,944.8 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) 1,250.9 1,128.6 192.3 2,571.8 acquisitions 11.0 24.0 35.0 currency translation (5.0 ) 34.5 (25.1 ) 4.4 balance at december 31, 2013 goodwill 1,629.9 1,187.1 167.2 2,984.2 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) 1,256.9 1,187.1 167.2 2,611.2 acquisitions 40.6 40.6 currency translation (4.3 ) (119.4 ) (13.9 ) (137.6 ) balance at december 31, 2014 goodwill 1,666.2 1,067.7 153.3 2,887.2 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) $ 1,293.2 $ 1,067.7 $ 153.3 $ 2,514.2 52 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the components of identifiable intangible assets were as follows (in millions): technology intellectual property rights trademarks and trade names customer relationships other total as of december 31, 2014: intangible assets subject to amortization: gross carrying amount $ 727.2 $ 173.4 $ 74.2 $ 213.8 $ 93.9 $ 1,282.5 accumulated amortization (458.3 ) (157.7 ) (34.1 ) (99.6 ) (58.3 ) (808.0 ) intangible assets not subject to amortization: gross carrying amount 129.0 129.0 total identifiable intangible assets $ 268.9 $ 15.7 $ 169.1 $ 114.2 $ 35.6 $ 603.5 as of december 31, 2013: intangible assets subject to amortization: gross carrying amount $ 700.4 $ 173.4 $ 43.3 $ 216.2 $ 95.1 $ 1,228.4 accumulated amortization (401.4 ) (142.5 ) (33.9 ) (76.4 ) (43.9 ) (698.1 ) intangible assets not subject to amortization: gross carrying amount 177.4 177.4 total identifiable intangible assets $ 299.0 $ 30.9 $ 186.8 $ 139.8 $ 51.2 $ 707.7 intangible amortization expense was recorded as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 cost of products sold $ 15.2 $ 18.3 $ 24.0 selling, general and administrative 92.0 77.6 73.1 total intangible amortization $ 107.2 $ 95.9 $ 97.1 estimated annual amortization expense based upon intangible assets recognized as of december 31, 2014 for the years ending december 31, 2015 through 2019 is (in millions): for the years ending december 31, 2015 $ 88.5 2016 81.6 2017 66.2 2018 50.9 2019 36.3 10. other current and long-term liabilities other current and long-term liabilities consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 2013 other current liabilities: license and service agreements $ 100.2 $ 109.2 certain claims accrual (note 19) 50.0 50.0 litigation settlement accrual (note 19) 70.0 forward starting interest rate swaps 59.3 salaries, wages and benefits 167.7 153.9 accrued liabilities 351.3 351.0 total other current liabilities $ 798.5 $ 664.1 other long-term liabilities: long-term income tax payable $ 181.7 $ 115.0 certain claims accrual (note 19) 307.2 329.0 other long-term liabilities 159.7 132.6 total other long-term liabilities $ 648.6 $ 576.6 53 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 11. debt our debt consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 2013 long-term debt senior notes due 2014 $ $ 250.0 senior notes due 2019 500.0 500.0 senior notes due 2021 300.0 300.0 senior notes due 2039 500.0 500.0 term loan 98.0 112.4 other long-term debt 4.9 2.1 debt discount (1.4 ) (1.5 ) adjustment related to interest rate swaps 24.0 9.3 total long-term debt $ 1,425.5 $ 1,672.3 in may 2014, we entered into a new credit agreement (senior credit facility). the senior credit facility contains: (i) a 5-year unsecured term loan facility in the principal amount of $3.0 billion (term loan), and (ii) a 5-year unsecured multicurrency revolving facility in the principal amount of $1.35 billion (multicurrency revolving facility). the senior credit facility replaced a previous agreement that provided for a $1.35 billion revolving credit facility that would have matured in may 2017. the multicurrency revolving facility will mature in may 2019, with two one-year extensions available at our option. borrowings under the multicurrency revolving facility may be used for general corporate purposes. the availability of the term loan is conditioned on, among other things, the consummation of the biomet merger. the term loan requires us to reduce unused commitments and prepay the borrowings under the term loan with any net cash proceeds received from specified asset sales, issuances or sales of equity and incurrences of borrowed money indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions. commitments under the term loan automatically terminate on the earliest to occur of: (i) the funding and disbursement of the term loan funds to us, (ii) april 24, 2015, as such date may be extended pursuant to the merger agreement, or (iii) termination of the merger agreement. the term loan will mature five years after the initial borrowing. borrowings under the term loan may only be used by us to fund, in part, the biomet merger, including the payment of any indebtedness of lvb and its subsidiaries, and to pay all or a portion of the costs incurred by us in connection with the biomet merger. there were no borrowings outstanding under the senior credit facility at december 31, 2014. in may 2014, we also entered into a 364-day credit agreement (bridge credit agreement). the bridge credit agreement is a 364-day unsecured committed bridge facility in the principal amount of $7.66 billion. funding of loans under the bridge credit agreement is conditioned on, among other things, the consummation of the biomet merger. any loans under the bridge credit agreement will mature 364 days after the funding date of the loans. the bridge credit agreement requires us to reduce unused commitments and prepay the loans with any net cash proceeds received from specified asset sales, issuances or sales of equity and incurrences of borrowed money indebtedness, such as new senior notes we intend to issue, subject to certain exceptions. commitments under the bridge credit agreement automatically terminate on the earliest to occur of: (i) the funding and disbursement of the loans, (ii) april 24, 2015, as such date may be extended pursuant to the merger agreement, or (iii) termination of the merger agreement. proceeds of loans under the bridge credit agreement may only be used to fund, in part, the biomet merger, including the payment of any indebtedness of lvb and its subsidiaries, and to pay all or a portion of the costs incurred by us in connection with the biomet merger. we have a term loan agreement (japan term loan) with one of the lenders under the senior credit facility for 11.7 billion japanese yen that will mature on may 31, 2018. borrowings under the japan term loan bear interest at a fixed rate of 0.61 percent per annum until maturity. the estimated fair value of the japan term loan as of december 31, 2014, based upon publicly available market yield curves and the terms of the debt (level 2), was $97.6 million. we and certain of our wholly owned foreign subsidiaries are the borrowers under the senior credit facility. borrowings under the senior credit facility bear interest at floating rates based upon indices determined by the currency of the borrowings plus an applicable margin determined by reference to our senior unsecured long-term credit rating, or at an alternate base rate, or, in the case of borrowings under the multicurrency revolving facility only, at a fixed-rate determined through a competitive bid process. the senior credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for an unsecured financing arrangement, including, among other things, limitations on consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. financial covenants include a consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda ratio of no greater than 3.0 to 1.0 in periods prior to any term loan funding and no greater than 5.0 to 1.0 in periods after the term loan is funded. if our credit rating falls below investment grade, additional restrictions would result, including restrictions on investments and payment of dividends. we were in compliance with all covenants under the senior credit facility as of december 31, 2014. commitments under the senior credit facility are subject to certain fees. on the multicurrency revolving facility, we pay a facility fee at a rate determined by reference to our senior unsecured long-term credit rating. on the term loan, we pay a fee on the daily actual unused commitment for the period from and including july 23, 2014 through the day the commitments under the term loan terminate. zimmer holdings is the borrower under the bridge credit agreement. borrowings under the bridge credit agreement bear interest at floating rates based upon libor plus an applicable margin determined by reference to our senior 54 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) unsecured long-term credit rating, or at an alternate base rate. the bridge credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for an unsecured financing arrangement, including, among other things, limitations on consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. financial covenants include a consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda ratio of no greater than 5.0 to 1.0. we were in compliance with all covenants under the bridge credit agreement as of december 31, 2014. if our credit rating falls below investment grade, additional restrictions would result, including restrictions on investments and payment of dividends. we will pay a funding fee if we borrow under the bridge credit agreement as well as duration fees based on the outstanding principal amount of the loans in the amount and on the dates specified in the bridge credit agreement. in addition, we pay a fee on the daily actual unused commitment for the period from and including july 23, 2014 through the day the commitments under the bridge credit agreement terminate. in association with the senior credit facility and bridge credit agreement, we incurred debt issuance costs paid to the lenders. these debt issuance costs, to the extent paid, were recognized as financing cash flows on our consolidated statement of cash flows. for the debt issuance costs related to the bridge credit agreement, we are recognizing expense on a straight-line basis over the estimated commitment period, which is one year. if we borrow under the bridge credit agreement in the future, any remaining unamortized debt issuance costs will be recognized as interest expense over the period debt is outstanding under the bridge credit agreement. the related expense for the bridge credit agreement debt issuance costs and the bridge credit agreement and term loan unused commitment fees has been presented as other expense on our consolidated statement of earnings since we have not borrowed against these agreements. the debt issuance costs related to the term loan portion of the senior credit facility will be recognized as interest expense under the effective interest rate method once we borrow on the term loan. the debt issuance costs related to the multicurrency revolving facility are being recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the 5-year commitment period of the facility. we have three tranches of senior notes outstanding: $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625 percent notes due november 30, 2019, $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375 percent notes due november 30, 2021 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75 percent notes due november 30, 2039. interest on each series is payable on may 30 and november 30 of each year until maturity. the estimated fair value of our senior notes as of december 31, 2014, based on quoted prices for the specific securities from transactions in over-the-counter markets (level 2), was $1,460.2 million. we may redeem the senior notes at our election in whole or in part at any time prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of 1) 100 percent of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed; or 2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis at the treasury rate (as defined in the debt agreement), plus 20 basis points in the case of the 2019 notes and 2021 notes, and 25 basis points in the case of the 2039 notes. we would also pay the accrued and unpaid interest on the senior notes to the redemption date. we have entered into interest rate swap agreements which we designated as fair value hedges of underlying fixed-rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. see note 13 for additional information regarding the interest rate swap agreements. we also have available uncommitted credit facilities totaling $31.9 million. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, the weighted average interest rate for our long-term borrowings was 3.5 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively. we paid $67.5 million, $68.1 million and $67.8 million in interest during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 12. accumulated other comprehensive income oci refers to certain gains and losses that under gaap are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from net earnings as these amounts are initially recorded as an adjustment to stockholders equity. amounts in oci may be reclassified to net earnings upon the occurrence of certain events. our oci is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, and amortization of prior service costs and unrecognized gains and losses in actuarial assumptions on our defined benefit plans. foreign currency translation adjustments are reclassified to net earnings upon sale or upon a complete or substantially complete liquidation of an investment in a foreign entity. unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges are reclassified to net earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are reclassified to net earnings if we sell the security before maturity or if the unrealized loss is considered to be other-than-temporary. amounts related to defined benefit plans that are in oci are reclassified over the service periods of employees in the plan. the reclassification amounts are allocated to all employees in the plans and, therefore, the reclassified amounts may become part of inventory to the extent they are considered direct labor costs. see note 14 for more information on our defined benefit plans. 55 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table shows the changes in the components of oci, net of tax (in millions): foreign currency translation cash flow hedges unrealized gains on securities defined benefit plan items balance december 31, 2013 $ 401.1 $ 33.1 $ 0.5 $ (67.6 ) oci before reclassifications (241.5 ) 55.9 (0.5 ) (80.0 ) reclassifications (18.9 ) (0.4 ) 4.2 balance december 31, 2014 $ 159.6 $ 70.1 $ (0.4 ) $ (143.4 ) the following table shows the reclassification adjustments from oci (in millions): amount of gain / (loss) reclassified from oci location on statement of earnings for the years ended december 31, component of oci 2014 2013 2012 cash flow hedges foreign exchange forward contracts $ 33.3 $ 8.0 $ (12.0 ) cost of products sold foreign exchange options (0.2 ) (0.4 ) cost of products sold cross-currency interest rate swaps 0.2 interest expense 33.3 7.8 (12.2 ) total before tax 14.4 3.4 (8.9 ) provision for income taxes $ 18.9 $ 4.4 $ (3.3 ) net of tax investments $ 0.4 $ $ interest income realized gains on securities provision for income taxes $ 0.4 $ $ net of tax defined benefit plans prior service cost $ 3.9 $ 3.9 $ 2.9 * unrecognized actuarial (loss) (11.1 ) (16.6 ) (13.3 ) * (7.2 ) (12.7 ) (10.4 ) total before tax (3.0 ) (4.8 ) (3.9 ) provision for income taxes $ (4.2 ) $ (7.9 ) $ (6.5 ) net of tax total reclassifications $ 15.1 $ (3.5 ) $ (9.8 ) net of tax * these oci components are included in the computation of net periodic pension expense (see note 14). the following table shows the tax effects on each component of oci recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions): before tax tax net of tax for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 foreign currency cumulative translation adjustments $ (241.5 ) $ (44.4 ) $ 46.1 $ $ $ $ (241.5 ) $ (44.4 ) $ 46.1 unrealized cash flow hedge gains 60.5 63.6 15.2 4.6 30.2 4.3 55.9 33.4 10.9 reclassification adjustments on foreign currency hedges (33.3 ) (7.8 ) 12.2 (14.4 ) (3.4 ) 8.9 (18.9 ) (4.4 ) 3.3 reclassification adjustments on securities (0.4 ) (0.4 ) unrealized gains/(losses) on securities (0.5 ) 0.1 0.4 (0.5 ) 0.1 0.4 adjustments to prior service cost and unrecognized actuarial assumptions (104.8 ) 50.3 20.3 (29.0 ) 11.8 8.5 (75.8 ) 38.5 11.8 total other comprehensive gain/(loss) $ (320.0 ) $ 61.8 $ 94.2 $ (38.8 ) $ 38.6 $ 21.7 $ (281.2 ) $ 23.2 $ 72.5 56 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 13. derivative instruments and hedging activities we are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency exchange rate risk, commodity price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities. currently, the only risks that we manage through the use of derivative instruments are interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. interest rate risk derivatives designated as fair value hedges we use interest rate derivative instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. under these agreements, we agree to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. the objective of the instruments is to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on cash and cash equivalents. these derivative instruments are designated as fair value hedges under gaap. changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in current earnings and are offset by gains or losses on the underlying debt instrument. we have multiple fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements that we have designated as fair value hedges of the fixed interest rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. the total notional amounts are $250 million and $300 million for the senior notes due 2019 and 2021, respectively. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2019, we receive a fixed interest rate of 4.625 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 133 basis points. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2021, we receive a fixed interest rate of 3.375 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 99 basis points. derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in 2014, we entered into forward starting interest rate swaps that we have designated as cash flow hedges of our anticipated issuance of senior notes related to the pending biomet merger that we anticipate will mature in march 2045. the forward starting interest rate swaps mitigate the risk of changes in interest rates prior to completion of the senior notes offering. the total notional amounts of the forward starting interest rate swaps are $1 billion and will settle in march 2015. on the forward starting interest rate swaps, we receive variable interest equal to three-month libor and pay a fixed interest weighted average rate of 3.01 percent. we will defer the effective portion of the forward starting interest rate swaps over the maturity period of the hedged senior notes, which is thirty years, and recognize any ineffective portion immediately in earnings. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. to reduce the potential effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements on net earnings, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. derivatives designated as cash flow hedges our revenues are generated in various currencies throughout the world. however, a significant amount of our inventory is produced in u.s. dollars. therefore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates may have different proportional effects on our revenues compared to our cost of products sold. to minimize the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements on cash flows, we hedge intercompany sales of inventory expected to occur within the next 30 months with foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options. we designate these derivative instruments as cash flow hedges. we perform quarterly assessments of hedge effectiveness by verifying and documenting the critical terms of the hedge instrument and that forecasted transactions have not changed significantly. we also assess on a quarterly basis whether there have been adverse developments regarding the risk of a counterparty default. for derivatives which qualify as hedges of future cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income and then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value, if any, is immediately reported in cost of products sold. for foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options outstanding at december 31, 2014, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees and obligations to purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars. these derivatives mature at dates ranging from january 2015 through june 2017. as of december 31, 2014, the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts and options entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars were $1,289.8 million. as of december 31, 2014, the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts and options entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs were $306.3 million. 57 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) derivatives not designated as hedging instruments we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, any foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. these offsetting gains/losses are recorded in cost of products sold as the underlying assets and liabilities exposed to remeasurement include inventory-related transactions. these contracts are settled on the last day of each reporting period. therefore, there is no outstanding balance related to these contracts recorded on the balance sheet as of the end of the reporting period. the notional amounts of these contracts are typically in a range of $1.2 billion to $1.7 billion per quarter. foreign currency exchange and interest rate risk derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in 2011, our subsidiary in japan, with a functional currency of japanese yen, borrowed variable-rate debt of $143.0 million denominated in u.s. dollars under our previous credit facility. to manage the foreign currency exchange risk associated with remeasuring the debt to japanese yen and the interest rate risk associated with the variable-rate debt, we entered into multiple cross-currency interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of 11,798 million japanese yen. we designated these swaps as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks. the effective portion of changes in fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps was temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income and then recognized in interest expense when the hedged item affected net earnings. the cross-currency interest rate swap agreements matured in 2012 and we paid off the subsidiary u.s. dollar debt with japanese yen debt borrowed under our previous credit facility. income statement presentation derivatives designated as fair value hedges derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges had the following effects on our consolidated statements of earnings (in millions): gain /(loss) on instrument gain /(loss) on hedged item derivative instrument location on statement of earnings year ended december 31, year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 interest rate swaps interest expense $ 14.7 $ (24.6 ) $ 6.1 $ (14.7 ) $ 24.6 $ (6.1 ) we had no ineffective fair value hedging instruments nor any amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. derivatives designated as cash flow hedges derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges had the following effects, before taxes, on oci and net earnings on our consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated statements of comprehensive income and consolidated balance sheets (in millions): amount of gain / (loss) recognized in oci amount of gain / (loss) reclassified from oci year ended december 31, year ended december 31, derivative instrument 2014 2013 2012 location on statement of earnings 2014 2013 2012 foreign exchange forward contracts $ 119.8 $ 63.9 $ 16.3 cost of products sold $ 33.3 $ 8.0 $ (12.0 ) foreign exchange options (0.3 ) (1.1 ) cost of products sold (0.2 ) (0.4 ) forward starting interest rate swaps (59.3 ) interest expense cross-currency interest rate swaps interest expense 0.2 $ 60.5 $ 63.6 $ 15.2 $ 33.3 $ 7.8 $ (12.2 ) the net amount recognized in earnings during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 due to ineffectiveness and amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were not significant. 58 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges and recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2014, together with settled derivatives where the hedged item has not yet affected earnings, was a net unrealized gain of $87.9 million, or $70.0 million after taxes, which is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income. of the net unrealized gain, $89.5 million, or $66.0 million after taxes, is expected to be reclassified to earnings in cost of products sold and a loss of $0.7 million, or $0.5 million after taxes, is expected to be reclassified to earnings in interest expense over the next twelve months. derivatives not designated as hedging instruments the following gains/(losses) from these derivative instruments were recognized on our consolidated statements of earnings (in millions): derivative instrument year ended december 31, location on statement of earnings 2014 2013 2012 foreign exchange forward contracts cost of products sold $ 15.3 $ $ (2.0 ) this impact does not include any offsetting gains/losses recognized in earnings as a result of foreign currency remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. balance sheet presentation as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, all derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet. on our consolidated balance sheets, we recognize individual forward contracts and options with the same counterparty on a net asset/liability basis if we have a master netting agreement with the counterparty. under these master netting agreements, we are able to settle derivative instrument assets and liabilities with the same counterparty in a single transaction, instead of settling each derivative instrument separately. we have master netting agreements with all of our counterparties. the fair value of derivative instruments on a gross basis is as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 as of december 31, 2013 balance sheet location fair value balance sheet location fair value asset derivatives foreign exchange forward contracts other current assets $ 98.7 other current assets $ 60.2 foreign exchange forward contracts other assets 53.1 other assets 30.2 interest rate swaps other assets 24.0 other assets 16.3 total asset derivatives $ 175.8 $ 106.7 liability derivatives foreign exchange forward contracts other current liabilities $ 16.4 other current liabilities $ 26.4 forward starting interest rate swaps other current liabilities 59.3 other current liabilities foreign exchange forward contracts other long-term liabilities 11.6 other current liabilities 15.9 interest rate swaps other long-term liabilities other long-term liabilities 7.0 total liability derivatives $ 87.3 $ 49.3 the table below presents the effects of our master netting agreements on our consolidated balance sheets (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 as of december 31, 2013 description location gross amount offset net amount in balance sheet gross amount offset net amount in balance sheet asset derivatives cash flow hedges other current assets $ 98.7 $ 15.9 $ 82.8 $ 60.2 $ 13.5 $ 46.7 cash flow hedges other assets 53.1 10.4 42.7 30.2 8.2 22.0 liability derivatives cash flow hedges other current liabilities 16.4 15.9 0.5 26.4 13.5 12.9 cash flow hedges other long-term liabilities 11.6 10.4 1.2 15.9 8.2 7.7 59 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 14. retirement benefit plans we have defined benefit pension plans covering certain u.s. and puerto rico employees. the employees who are not participating in the defined benefit plans receive additional benefits under our defined contribution plans. plan benefits are primarily based on years of credited service and the participant average eligible compensation. in addition to the u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit pension plans, we sponsor various foreign pension arrangements, including retirement and termination benefit plans required by local law or coordinated with government sponsored plans. we use a december 31 measurement date for our benefit plans. defined benefit plans the components of net pension expense for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 service cost $ 10.9 $ 11.9 $ 11.4 $ 14.7 $ 16.1 $ 15.0 interest cost 15.5 13.2 13.3 9.2 5.6 6.1 expected return on plan assets (30.8 ) (28.7 ) (25.5 ) (11.0 ) (6.7 ) (7.6 ) settlement 0.7 amortization of prior service cost (2.6 ) (2.6 ) (2.0 ) (1.3 ) (1.3 ) (0.9 ) amortization of unrecognized actuarial loss 10.6 14.8 11.4 0.5 1.8 1.9 net periodic benefit cost $ 3.6 $ 8.6 $ 9.3 $ 12.1 $ 15.5 $ 14.5 the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine net pension expense for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows: u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 discount rate 4.98% 4.32% 4.97% 2.46% 2.13% 2.58% rate of compensation increase 3.29% 3.29% 3.81% 1.48% 2.29% 2.77% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.75% 7.75% 7.75% 2.88% 2.74% 3.51% the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on the historical and estimated future rates of return on the different asset classes held in the plans. the expected long-term rate of return is the weighted average of the target asset allocation of each individual asset class. we believe that historical asset results approximate expected market returns applicable to the funding of a long-term benefit obligation. discount rates were determined for each of our defined benefit retirement plans at their measurement date to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality bonds matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefit payments. 60 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) changes in projected benefit obligations and plan assets were (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2014 2013 projected benefit obligation beginning of year $ 316.7 $ 314.3 $ 371.5 $ 259.4 service cost 10.9 11.9 14.7 16.1 interest cost 15.5 13.2 9.2 5.6 plan amendments (7.0 ) 118.9 employee contributions 18.5 15.9 benefits paid (10.0 ) (10.4 ) (22.6 ) (29.4 ) actuarial (gain) loss 53.5 (12.3 ) 77.9 (17.7 ) expenses paid (0.2 ) (0.2 ) translation (gain) loss (38.3 ) 2.9 projected benefit obligation end of year $ 386.6 $ 316.7 $ 423.7 $ 371.5 plan assets at fair market value beginning of year $ 398.6 $ 363.0 $ 372.3 $ 231.6 actual return on plan assets 10.9 25.2 38.0 9.7 employer contributions 2.7 20.8 14.7 15.0 employee contributions 18.5 15.9 plan amendments 126.7 benefits paid (10.0 ) (10.4 ) (22.6 ) (29.4 ) expenses paid (0.2 ) (0.2 ) translation gain (loss) (35.3 ) 3.0 plan assets at fair market value end of year $ 402.2 $ 398.6 $ 385.4 $ 372.3 funded status $ 15.6 $ 81.9 $ (38.3 ) $ 0.8 amounts recognized in consolidated balance sheet: prepaid pension $ 29.4 $ 92.7 $ 12.4 $ 12.1 short-term accrued benefit liability (0.7 ) (0.7 ) (0.5 ) long-term accrued benefit liability (13.1 ) (10.1 ) (50.2 ) (11.3 ) net amount recognized $ 15.6 $ 81.9 $ (38.3 ) $ 0.8 amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income: unrecognized prior service cost $ (9.4 ) $ (12.0 ) $ (12.8 ) $ (8.3 ) unrecognized actuarial loss 176.1 113.3 68.7 15.5 total amount recognized $ 166.7 $ 101.3 $ 55.9 $ 7.2 61 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) we estimate the following amounts recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income will be recognized as part of our net pension expense during 2015 (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign unrecognized prior service cost $ (2.6 ) $ (1.9 ) unrecognized actuarial loss 18.3 2.7 $ 15.7 $ 0.8 the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows: u.s. and puerto rico foreign for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 discount rate 4.10 % 4.98 % 4.32 % 1.38 % 2.45 % 2.15 % rate of compensation increase 3.29 % 3.29 % 3.29 % 1.43 % 1.52 % 2.75 % plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign as of december 31, 2014 2013 2014 2013 projected benefit obligation $ 54.6 $ 10.8 $ 365.2 $ 318.1 plan assets at fair market value 40.8 315.0 307.4 total accumulated benefit obligations and plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign as of december 31, 2014 2013 2014 2013 total accumulated benefit obligations $ 337.5 $ 273.8 $ 413.1 $ 362.1 plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: accumulated benefit obligation 32.8 8.8 358.6 308.9 plan assets at fair market value 22.0 315.0 303.7 the benefits expected to be paid out in each of the next five years and for the five years combined thereafter are as follows (in millions): for the years ending december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2015 $ 12.3 $ 17.0 2016 13.3 16.5 2017 15.0 16.9 2018 16.5 17.0 2019 18.4 17.9 2020-2024 113.2 89.1 the u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit retirement plans overall investment strategy is to maximize total returns by emphasizing long-term growth of capital while mitigating risk. we have established target ranges of assets held by the plans of 40 to 45 percent for equity securities, 30 to 35 percent for debt securities and 20 to 25 percent in non-traditional investments. the plans strive to have sufficiently diversified assets so that adverse or unexpected results from one asset class will not have an unduly detrimental impact on the entire portfolio. we regularly review the investments in the plans and we may rebalance them from time-to-time based upon the target asset allocation of the plans. for the u.s. and puerto rico plans, we maintain an investment policy statement that guides the investment allocation in the plans. the investment policy statement describes the target asset allocation positions described above. our benefits committee, along with our investment advisor, monitor compliance with and administer the investment policy statement and the plans assets and oversee the general investment strategy and objectives of the plans. our benefits committee generally meets quarterly to review performance and to ensure that the current investment allocation is within the parameters of the investment policy statement. 62 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the investment strategies of foreign based plans vary according to the plan provisions and local laws. the majority of the assets in foreign based plans are located in switzerland-based plans. these assets are held in trusts and are commingled with the assets of other swiss companies with representatives of all the companies making the investment decisions. the overall strategy is to maximize total returns while avoiding risk. the trustees of the assets have established target ranges of assets held by the plans of 30 to 50 percent in debt securities, 20 to 37 percent in equity securities, 15 to 24 percent in real estate, 3 to 15 percent in cash funds and 0 to 12 percent in other funds. the fair value of our u.s. and puerto rico pension plan assets by asset category was as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 1.4 $ 1.4 $ $ equity securities: u.s. large-cap 83.7 83.7 u.s. small-cap 23.0 23.0 international 83.0 83.0 real estate 49.1 49.1 commodity-linked mutual funds 36.0 36.0 intermediate fixed income securities 126.0 126.0 total $ 402.2 $ 1.4 $ 400.8 $ as of december 31, 2013 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 0.8 $ 0.8 $ $ equity securities: u.s. large-cap 79.6 79.6 u.s. small-cap 22.3 22.3 international 87.7 87.7 real estate 43.4 43.4 commodity-linked mutual funds 42.1 42.1 intermediate fixed income securities 122.7 122.7 total $ 398.6 $ 0.8 $ 397.8 $ the fair value of our foreign pension plan assets was as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2014 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 31.0 $ 31.0 $ $ equity securities: energy 4.7 4.7 materials 7.1 7.1 industrials 7.5 7.5 consumer discretionary 6.5 6.5 consumer staples 7.5 7.5 healthcare 6.8 6.8 financials 16.3 16.3 information technology 4.9 4.9 telecommunication services 2.0 2.0 utilities 3.4 3.4 other 36.7 34.5 2.2 fixed income securities: government bonds 72.5 72.5 corporate bonds 58.9 58.9 asset-backed securities 22.0 22.0 other debt 1.7 1.7 other types of investments: mortgage loans 9.2 9.2 insurance contracts 6.1 6.1 other investments 12.0 12.0 real estate 68.6 68.6 total $ 385.4 $ 132.2 $ 184.6 $ 68.6 as of december 31, 2013 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 13.9 $ 13.9 $ $ equity securities: energy 4.7 4.7 materials 5.7 5.7 industrials 7.6 7.6 consumer discretionary 5.2 5.2 consumer staples 6.8 6.8 healthcare 9.7 9.7 financials 15.8 15.8 information technology 5.8 5.8 telecommunication services 2.6 2.6 utilities 3.4 3.4 other 35.7 33.2 2.5 fixed income securities: government bonds 64.4 64.4 corporate bonds 65.9 65.9 asset-backed securities 24.0 24.0 other debt 2.8 2.8 other types of investments: mortgage loans 9.0 9.0 insurance contracts 6.4 6.4 other investments 14.7 14.7 real estate 68.2 68.2 total $ 372.3 $ 114.4 $ 189.7 $ 68.2 63 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, our defined benefit pension plans assets did not hold any direct investment in zimmer holdings common stock. equity securities are valued using a market approach, based on quoted prices for the specific security from transactions in active exchange markets (level 1), or in some cases where we are invested in mutual or collective funds, based upon the net asset value per unit of the fund which is determined from quoted market prices of the underlying securities in the fund portfolio (level 2). fixed income securities are valued using a market approach, based upon quoted prices for the specific security or from institutional bid evaluations. some fixed income securities are in funds with a net asset value per unit which is determined using similar techniques for the underlying securities in the fund portfolio. real estate is valued by discounting to present value the cash flows expected to be generated by the specific properties. the following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of our foreign pension plan assets measured at fair value that used significant unobservable inputs (level 3) (in millions): december 31, 2014 beginning balance $ 68.2 gains on assets sold 0.3 change in fair value of assets 1.7 net purchases and sales 4.8 translation loss (6.4 ) ending balance $ 68.6 we expect that we will have no legally required minimum funding requirements in 2015 for the qualified u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit retirement plans, nor do we expect to voluntarily contribute to these plans during 2015. contributions to foreign defined benefit plans are estimated to be approximately $14.0 million in 2015. we do not expect the assets in any of our plans to be returned to us in the next year. defined contribution plans we also sponsor defined contribution plans for substantially all of the u.s. and puerto rico employees and certain employees in other countries. the benefits offered under these plans are reflective of local customs and practices in the countries concerned. we expensed $32.8 million, $29.6 million and $26.5 million related to these plans for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 15. income taxes the components of earnings before income taxes and the income taxes paid consisted of the following (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 united states operations $ 395.6 $ 400.7 $ 409.9 foreign operations 548.3 580.4 580.2 total $ 943.9 $ 981.1 $ 990.1 the provision for income taxes consisted of (in millions): current: federal $ 177.6 $ 199.0 $ 179.8 state 16.3 20.6 13.8 foreign 115.2 128.5 108.4 309.1 348.1 302.0 deferred: federal (56.9 ) (87.7 ) (58.8 ) state (6.6 ) (8.5 ) 0.7 foreign (20.7 ) (30.0 ) (6.7 ) (84.2 ) (126.2 ) (64.8 ) provision for income taxes $ 224.9 $ 221.9 $ 237.2 income taxes paid $ 340.1 $ 272.3 $ 227.6 a reconciliation of the u.s. statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is as follows: for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 u.s. statutory income tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % state taxes, net of federal deduction 0.7 0.8 1.0 tax impact of foreign operations, including foreign tax credits (11.3 ) (12.2 ) (10.4 ) tax impact of certain significant transactions 1.4 1.6 (3.5 ) tax benefit relating to u.s. manufacturer deduction and export sales (1.9 ) (1.8 ) (1.9 ) r&amp;d credit (0.2 ) (0.6 ) goodwill impairment 3.4 other 0.1 (0.2 ) 0.4 effective income tax rate 23.8 % 22.6 % 24.0 % our operations in puerto rico, switzerland and the state of indiana benefit from various tax incentive grants. unless these grants are extended, they will expire between fiscal years 2015 and 2026. deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. valuation allowances are 64 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) recorded to reduce deferred income tax assets when it is more likely than not that an income tax benefit will not be realized. the components of deferred taxes consisted of the following (in millions): as of december, 31 2014 2013 deferred tax assets: inventory $ 275.1 $ 271.1 net operating loss carryover 116.9 26.4 tax credit carryover 185.5 187.1 capital loss carryover 7.4 7.8 accrued liabilities 106.7 72.0 share-based compensation 59.9 74.6 unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries 32.3 25.6 other 50.3 11.2 total deferred tax assets 834.1 675.8 less: valuation allowances (122.8 ) (42.7 ) total deferred tax assets after valuation 711.3 633.1 deferred tax liabilities: fixed assets $ (104.3 ) $ (97.7 ) intangible assets (95.9 ) (106.4 ) other (1.2 ) total deferred tax liabilities (200.2 ) (205.3 ) total net deferred tax assets $ 511.1 $ 427.8 during the first quarter of 2014, we established a $70.5 million deferred tax asset (and offsetting valuation allowance) for indefinite lived net operating loss carryforwards in a luxembourg domiciled holding company. these losses primarily relate to interest deductions on intercompany debt and were generated in periods prior to 2014. previously, we were unable to realize a tax benefit for the losses due to the absence of current and future operating income within the luxembourg subsidiary. the net operating loss carryovers are available to reduce future federal, state and foreign taxable earnings. at december 31, 2014, $47.8 million of these net operating loss carryovers generally expire within a period of 1 to 20 years and $69.1 million have an indefinite life. valuation allowances for net operating loss carryovers have been established in the amount of $99.0 million and $17.3 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the tax credit carryovers are available to offset future federal, state and foreign tax liabilities. at december 31, 2014, these tax credit carryovers generally expire within a period of 1 to 10 years. we have established valuation allowances for certain tax credit carryovers in the amount of $11.5 million and $14.9 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the capital loss carryover is also available to reduce future federal capital gains. at december 31, 2014, these capital loss carryovers generally expire within a period of 2 to 4 years. we have established valuation allowances for certain capital loss carryovers in the amount of $7.4 million and $7.8 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the remaining valuation allowances of $4.9 million and $2.7 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, relate primarily to potential capital losses. at december 31, 2014, we had an aggregate of approximately $3,204.0 million of unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have been, or are intended to be, indefinitely reinvested for continued use in foreign operations. if the total undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries were remitted, a significant amount of the additional tax would be offset by the allowable foreign tax credits. it is not practical for us to determine the additional tax related to remitting these earnings. the following is a tabular reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 balance at january 1 $ 304.3 $ 285.5 $ 158.4 increases related to prior periods 0.9 16.5 118.7 decreases related to prior periods (3.8 ) (17.3 ) (8.9 ) increases related to current period 17.3 22.5 19.1 decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities (3.0 ) (2.9 ) (0.6 ) decreases related to lapse of statute of limitations (1.7 ) (1.2 ) balance at december 31 $ 314.0 $ 304.3 $ 285.5 amounts impacting effective tax rate, if recognized balance at december 31 $ 203.0 $ 186.3 $ 159.0 we recognize accrued interest and penalties, related to unrecognized tax benefits, as income tax expense. during 2014, we accrued interest and penalties of $5.7 million, and as of december 31, 2014, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $47.8 million. during 2013, we accrued interest and penalties of $8.2 million, and as of december 31, 2013, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $42.1 million. during 2012, we accrued interest and penalties of $23.2 million, and as of december 31, 2012, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $33.9 million. we operate on a global basis and are subject to numerous and complex tax laws and regulations. our income tax filings are regularly under audit in multiple federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. income tax audits may require an extended period of time to reach resolution and may result in significant income tax adjustments when interpretation of tax laws or allocation of company profits is disputed. the net amount of tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits may change within the next twelve months due to changes in audit status, expiration of statutes of limitations, settlements of tax assessments and other events which could impact our determination of unrecognized tax benefits. currently, we cannot reasonably estimate the amount by which our unrecognized tax benefits will change. 65 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) during the second quarter of 2014, the irs began the audit of our u.s. federal returns for the years 2010 through 2012. during the second quarter of 2011, the irs concluded its examination of our u.s. federal returns for years 2005 through 2007 and during the fourth quarter of 2013, the irs concluded its examination of our u.s. federal returns for years 2008 through 2009. for years 2006 through 2009, the irs has proposed adjustments reallocating profits between certain of our u.s. and foreign subsidiaries. during the second quarter of 2014, the irs issued a corrected revenue agent report for years 2008 through 2009, assessing a penalty with respect to a 2008 uncertain tax position. we have disputed these proposed adjustments and continue to pursue resolution with the irs. during the second quarter of 2014, the irs issued a statutory notice of deficiency for the years 2005 through 2007. we are contesting this deficiency notice and we filed a petition with the u.s. tax court during the third quarter of 2014. although the ultimate timing for resolution of the disputed tax issues is uncertain, we may resolve certain tax matters with the irs within the next twelve months and pay amounts for other unresolved tax matters in order to limit the potential impact of irs interest charges. final resolution of these matters could have a material impact on our income tax expense, results of operations and cash flows for future periods. state income tax returns are generally subject to examination for a period of 3 to 5 years after filing of the respective return. the state impact of any federal changes generally remains subject to examination by various states for a period of up to one year after formal notification to the states. we have various state income tax returns in the process of examination, administrative appeals or litigation. our tax returns are currently under examination in various foreign jurisdictions. foreign jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. years still open to examination by foreign tax authorities in major jurisdictions include: australia (2010 onward), canada (2008 onward), france (2011 onward), germany (2009 onward), ireland (2010 onward), italy (2010 onward), japan (2010 onward), korea (2010 onward), puerto rico (2008 onward), switzerland (2013 onward), and the united kingdom (2013 onward). 16. capital stock and earnings per share we are authorized to issue 250 million shares of preferred stock, none of which were issued or outstanding as of december 31, 2014. the numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is net earnings available to common stockholders. the denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. the denominator for diluted earnings per share is weighted average shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of dilutive stock options and other equity awards. the following is a reconciliation of weighted average shares for the basic and diluted share computations (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 weighted average shares outstanding for basic net earnings per share 169.0 169.6 174.9 effect of dilutive stock options and other equity awards 2.7 2.2 1.1 weighted average shares outstanding for diluted net earnings per share 171.7 171.8 176.0 for the year ended december 31, 2014, all outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock were included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as the exercise prices of all options were less than the average market price of the common stock. for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, an average of 3.1 million and 11.9 million options, respectively, were not included. during 2014, we repurchased 4.2 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $94.57 per share for a total cash outlay of $400.5 million, including commissions. 17. segment data we design, develop, manufacture and market orthopaedic reconstructive implants, biologics, dental implants, spinal implants, trauma products and related surgical products which include surgical supplies and instruments designed to aid in surgical procedures and post-operation rehabilitation. we also provide other healthcare-related services. we manage operations through three major geographic segments the americas, which is comprised principally of the u.s. and includes other north, central and south american markets; europe, which is comprised principally of europe and includes the middle east and african markets; and asia pacific, which is comprised primarily of japan and includes other asian and pacific markets. this structure is the basis for our reportable segment information discussed below. management evaluates reportable segment performance based upon segment operating profit exclusive of operating expenses pertaining to inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges, certain claims, goodwill impairment, special items, and global operations and corporate functions. global operations and corporate functions include research, development engineering, medical education, brand management, corporate legal, finance, and human resource functions, u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics and intangible asset amortization resulting from business combination accounting and share-based payment expense. intercompany transactions have been eliminated from segment operating profit. management reviews accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets by reportable segment exclusive of u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics and corporate assets. 66 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) net sales and other information by segment is as follows (in millions): americas europe asia pacific global operations and corporate functions total as of and for the year ended december 31, 2014 net sales $ 2,594.2 $ 1,269.5 $ 809.6 $ $ 4,673.3 depreciation and amortization 79.6 72.0 31.7 192.5 375.8 segment operating profit 1,288.4 398.6 351.0 (604.1 ) 1,433.9 inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges (21.2 ) certain claims (21.5 ) special items (356.5 ) operating profit 1,034.7 long-lived assets 877.6 301.4 109.8 1,288.8 total assets 2,856.9 2,113.1 530.3 4,134.4 9,634.7 additions to instruments 0.2 17.0 6.0 174.2 197.4 additions to other property, plant and equipment 9.8 14.1 9.1 111.9 144.9 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2013 net sales $ 2,619.8 $ 1,212.6 $ 791.0 $ $ 4,623.4 depreciation and amortization 70.9 72.6 30.7 184.3 358.5 segment operating profit 1,302.6 359.7 342.3 (634.8 ) 1,369.8 inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges (70.5 ) certain claims (47.0 ) special items (216.7 ) operating profit 1,035.6 long-lived assets 810.8 306.3 107.6 1,224.7 total assets 2,814.9 2,343.8 541.9 3,880.0 9,580.6 additions to instruments 0.2 14.8 6.5 171.4 192.9 additions to other property, plant and equipment 9.0 10.3 7.6 73.1 100.0 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 net sales $ 2,476.3 $ 1,177.4 $ 818.0 $ $ 4,471.7 depreciation and amortization 73.7 73.6 36.3 179.5 363.1 segment operating profit 1,256.3 369.1 311.1 (617.9 ) 1,318.6 inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges (4.8 ) certain claims (15.0 ) goodwill impairment (96.0 ) special items (155.4 ) operating profit 1,047.4 long-lived assets 776.0 326.1 108.6 1,210.7 total assets 2,690.6 2,308.0 578.3 3,435.5 9,012.4 additions to instruments 14.0 7.1 127.8 148.9 additions to other property, plant and equipment 0.7 21.9 6.4 85.7 114.7 67 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the americas long-lived tangible assets are located primarily in the u.s. $198.7 million of europe long-lived tangible assets as of december 31, 2014 are located in switzerland. for segment reporting purposes, deployed instruments are included in the measurement of reportable segment assets while undeployed instruments at u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics are included in global operations and corporate functions. the majority of instruments are purchased by u.s., puerto rico and ireland-based manufacturing operations and logistics and are deployed to the reportable segments as needed for the business. therefore, the reportable segment assets include deployed instruments even though that reportable segment may not report the instrument addition. u.s. sales were $2,397.9 million, $2,418.2 million and $2,280.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. sales within any other individual country were less than 10 percent of our consolidated sales. sales are attributable to a country based upon the customer country of domicile. net sales by product category are as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 reconstructive knees $ 1,965.8 $ 1,909.9 $ 1,833.8 hips 1,326.4 1,330.5 1,342.0 extremities 204.3 193.8 173.8 3,496.5 3,434.2 3,349.6 dental 242.8 239.3 237.7 trauma 316.7 315.6 307.9 spine 207.2 202.3 208.9 surgical and other 410.1 432.0 367.6 total $ 4,673.3 $ 4,623.4 $ 4,471.7 18. leases total rent expense for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 aggregated $48.4 million, $49.2 million and $46.3 million, respectively. future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of december 31, 2014 were (in millions): for the years ending december 31, 2015 $ 46.5 2016 36.1 2017 27.0 2018 21.4 2019 19.6 thereafter 32.3 19. commitments and contingencies product liability-related claims we are subject to product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. we establish standard accruals for product liability claims in conjunction with outside counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for open claims, related legal fees and claims incurred but not reported. these standard product liability accruals are recognized in selling, general and administrative expense. we may also establish provisions for certain product liability claims outside of the standard accruals that are recorded separately on our statement of earnings, such as the provision for claims related to the durom cup discussed below. we maintain insurance, subject to self-insured retention requirements, for losses from these and other claims. on july 22, 2008, we temporarily suspended marketing and distribution of the durom cup in the u.s. subsequently, a number of product liability lawsuits were filed against us in various u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. the plaintiffs seek damages for personal injury, and they generally allege that the durom cup contains defects that result in complications and premature revision of the device. we have settled some of these claims and others are still pending. the majority of the pending u.s. lawsuits are currently in a federal multidistrict litigation (mdl) in the district of new jersey ( in re: zimmer durom hip cup products liability litigation ). multi-plaintiff state court cases are pending in st. clair county, illinois ( santas, et al. v. zimmer, inc., et al. ) and los angeles county, california ( mcallister, et al. v. zimmer, inc., et al. ). as of december 31, 2014, case specific discovery in these lawsuits was on-going. the initial trial in santas took place in november 2014 and initial trials in mcallister and the mdl are expected to commence in the second quarter of 2015. other lawsuits are pending in various jurisdictions, and additional claims may be asserted in the future. 68 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) since 2008, we have recognized expense of $471.7 million for durom cup-related claims, including $21.5 million, $47.0 million and $15.0 million during the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. we maintain insurance for product liability claims, subject to self-insurance retention requirements. in 2008, we notified our insurance carriers of potential claims related to the durom cup. as of december 31, 2014, we have exhausted our self-insured retention under our insurance program and have a claim for insurance proceeds for ultimate losses which exceed the self-insured retention amount, subject to a 20 percent co-payment requirement and a cap. we believe our contracts with the insurance carriers are enforceable for these claims and, therefore, it is probable that we will recover some amount from our insurance carriers. we have received an initial amount of the insurance proceeds we estimate to recover and expect to receive more in the near future. we have a $170.3 million receivable in other assets remaining on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2014 for estimated insurance recoveries. as is customary in this process, our insurance carriers have reserved all rights under their respective policies and could still ultimately deny coverage for some or all of our insurance claims. our estimate as of december 31, 2014 of the remaining liability for all durom cup-related claims is $357.2 million, of which $50.0 million is classified as short-term in other current liabilities and $307.2 million is classified as long-term in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. we expect to pay the majority of the durom cup-related claims within the next few years. our understanding of clinical outcomes with the durom cup and other large diameter hip cups continues to evolve. we rely on significant estimates in determining the provisions for durom cup-related claims, including our estimate of the number of claims that we will receive and the average amount we will pay per claim. the actual number of claims and the actual amount we pay per claim may differ from our estimates. among other factors, since our understanding of the clinical outcomes is still evolving, we cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may result from durom cup-related claims in excess of the losses we have accrued. on august 20, 2008, margo and daniel polett filed an action against us and an unrelated third party, public communications, inc. (pci), in the court of common pleas, philadelphia, pennsylvania seeking an unspecified amount of damages for injuries and loss of consortium allegedly suffered by mrs. polett and her spouse, respectively. the complaint alleged that defendants were negligent in connection with mrs. polett participation in a promotional video featuring one of our knee products. the case was tried in november 2010 and the jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiffs. the jury awarded $27.6 million in compensatory damages and apportioned fault 30 percent to plaintiffs, 34 percent to us and 36 percent to pci. under applicable law, we may be liable for any portion of the damages apportioned to pci that it does not pay. on december 2, 2010, we and pci filed a motion for post-trial relief seeking a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, a new trial or a remittitur. on june 10, 2011, the trial court entered an order denying our motion for post-trial relief and affirming the jury verdict in full and entered judgment for $20.3 million against us and pci. on june 29, 2011, we filed a notice of appeal to the superior court of pennsylvania and posted a bond for the verdict amount plus interest. oral argument before the appellate court in philadelphia, pennsylvania was held on march 13, 2012. on march 1, 2013, the superior court of pennsylvania vacated the $27.6 million judgment and remanded the case for a new trial. on march 15, 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion for re-argument en banc , and on march 28, 2013, we filed our response in opposition . on may 9, 2013, the superior court of pennsylvania granted plaintiffs motion for re-argument en banc . oral argument (re-argument en banc ) before the superior court of pennsylvania was held on october 16, 2013. on december 20, 2013, the court issued its opinion again vacating the trial court judgment and remanding the case for a new trial. on january 21, 2014, plaintiffs filed a petition for allowance of appeal in the supreme court of pennsylvania, which was granted on may 21, 2014. oral argument before the supreme court of pennsylvania took place on october 8, 2014. although we are defending this lawsuit vigorously, its ultimate resolution is uncertain. following a wide-spread advertising campaign conducted by certain law firms beginning in 2010, a number of product liability lawsuits have been filed against us in various jurisdictions. the plaintiffs seek damages for personal injury, alleging that certain products within the nexgen knee system suffer from defects that cause them to loosen prematurely. the majority of the cases are currently pending in a federal multidistrict litigation in the northern district of illinois ( in re: zimmer nexgen knee implant products liability litigation ). other cases are pending in other state and federal courts, and additional lawsuits may be filed. as of december 31, 2014, discovery in these lawsuits was on-going. bellwether trials are expected to commence in the third quarter of 2015. we have not accrued an estimated loss relating to these lawsuits because we believe the plaintiffs allegations are not consistent with the record of clinical success for these products. as a result, we do not believe that it is probable that we have incurred a liability, and we cannot reasonably estimate any loss that might eventually be incurred. although we are vigorously defending these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is uncertain. intellectual property-related claims on december 10, 2010, stryker corporation and related entities (stryker) filed suit against us in the u.s. district court for the western district of michigan, alleging that certain of our pulsavac plus wound debridement products infringe three u.s. patents assigned to stryker. the case was tried beginning 69 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) on january 15, 2013, and on february 5, 2013, the jury found that we infringed certain claims of the subject patents. the jury awarded $70.0 million in monetary damages for lost profits. the jury also found that we willfully infringed the subject patents. we filed multiple post-trial motions, including a motion seeking a new trial. on august 7, 2013, the trial court issued a ruling denying all of our motions and awarded treble damages and attorneys fees to stryker. we filed a notice of appeal to the court of appeals for the federal circuit to seek reversal of both the jury verdict and the trial court rulings on our post-trial motions. oral argument before the federal circuit took place on september 8, 2014. on december 19, 2014, the federal circuit issued a decision affirming the $70.0 million lost profits award but reversed the willfulness finding, vacating the treble damages award and vacating and remanding the attorneys fees award. we accrued an estimated loss of $70.0 million related to this matter in the year ended december 31, 2014. on january 20, 2015, stryker filed a motion with the federal circuit for a rehearing en banc. although we are defending this lawsuit vigorously, its ultimate resolution is uncertain. shareholder derivative action on june 16, 2014, a shareholder derivative action, hays v. dvorak et al. , was filed in the court of chancery of the state of delaware. the plaintiff sought to maintain the action purportedly on our behalf against certain of our current and former directors and two non-director executive officers. the plaintiff alleged, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duties, abuse of control, unjust enrichment and gross mismanagement by the named defendants based on the trial court ruling in the patent infringement lawsuit brought by stryker described above relating to certain of our pulsavac plus wound debridement products. the plaintiff did not seek damages from us, but instead requested damages of an unspecified amount on our behalf. the plaintiff also sought equitable relief to remedy the individual defendants alleged misconduct, attorneys fees, costs and other relief. on august 18, 2014, we filed a motion to stay or dismiss the complaint, and the individual defendants filed a joinder motion. on december 15, 2014, the delaware court of chancery granted our motion to stay pending a ruling from the federal circuit on the appeal in the stryker patent infringement case. the federal circuit issued a ruling on december 19, 2014, as described above. on february 6, 2015, all claims pending in this shareholder derivative action were dismissed without prejudice pursuant to a stipulation of dismissal. regulatory matters in september 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain manufacturing and validation processes pertaining to trilogy acetabular system products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. we have provided detailed responses to the fda as to our corrective actions and will continue to work expeditiously to address the issues identified by the fda during inspections in ponce. as of december 31, 2014, the warning letter remains pending. until the violations are corrected, we may be subject to additional regulatory action by the fda, including seizure, injunction and/or civil monetary penalties. additionally, requests for certificates to foreign governments related to products manufactured at the ponce facility may not be granted and premarket approval applications for class iii devices to which the quality system regulation deviations are reasonably related will not be approved until the violations have been corrected. in addition to responding to the warning letter described above, we are in the process of addressing various fda form 483 inspectional observations at certain of our manufacturing facilities. the ultimate outcome of these matters is presently uncertain. 20. quarterly financial information (unaudited) (in millions, except per share data) 2014 quarter ended 2013 quarter ended mar jun sep dec mar jun sep dec net sales $ 1,161.5 $ 1,182.9 $ 1,106.0 $ 1,222.9 $ 1,138.9 $ 1,169.5 $ 1,074.3 $ 1,240.7 gross profit 856.1 849.7 807.7 910.0 846.0 845.9 745.5 899.9 net earnings of zimmer holdings, inc. 221.5 176.5 165.5 156.6 218.6 152.1 154.4 235.9 earnings per common share basic 1.31 1.05 0.98 0.92 1.30 0.90 0.91 1.38 diluted 1.29 1.03 0.96 0.91 1.28 0.89 0.90 1.36 70 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a. controls and procedures we maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rule 13a-15(e) under the exchange act) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. because of inherent limitations, disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of disclosure controls and procedures are met. our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable assurance level. item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2014, the audit committee of our board of directors approved the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform certain non-audit services related to certain tax matters. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the exchange act. 71 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on may 5, 2015 (the 2015 proxy statement ). we have adopted the zimmer code of ethics for chief executive officer and senior financial officers (the finance code of ethics ), a code of ethics that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and corporate controller, and other finance organization senior employees. the finance code of ethics is publicly available in the investor relations section of our website, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmer.com or directly at http://investor.zimmer.com. if we make any substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or chief accounting officer and corporate controller, we will disclose the nature of that amendment in the investor relations section of our website. item 11. executive compensation information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2015 proxy statement. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2015 proxy statement. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2015 proxy statement. item 14. principal accounting fees and services information required by this item is incorporated by reference from of our 2015 proxy statement. 72 table of contents zimmer holdings, inc. 2014 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 10 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. successful integration of biomet and anticipated benefits of the biomet merger are not assured and integration matters could divert attention of management away from operations. also, the merger could have an adverse effect on our business relationships. although biomet has become an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of ours, it is initially continuing its operations on a basis that is separate from the legacy zimmer operations. there can be no assurance that biomet will be able to maintain and grow its business and operations. in addition, the market segments in which biomet operates may experience declines in demand and/or new competitors. customers, suppliers and other third parties with business relationships with us and/or biomet may decide not to renew or may decide to seek to terminate, change and/or renegotiate their relationships with us and/or biomet as a result of the merger, whether pursuant to the terms of their existing agreements with us and/or biomet or otherwise. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the biomet merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the legacy businesses. integrating and coordinating certain aspects of the operations and personnel of biomet with ours involves complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. this process is time-consuming and expensive, disrupts the businesses of both companies and may not result in the full benefits expected by us, including cost synergies expected to arise from supply chain efficiencies and overlapping general and administrative functions. the potential difficulties, and resulting costs and delays, include: managing a larger combined company; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; issues in integrating manufacturing, warehouse and distribution facilities, research and development and sales forces; difficulties attracting and retaining key personnel; loss of customers and suppliers and inability to attract new customers and suppliers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing, administration and other systems and processes; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the merger or biomet business. additionally, the integration of our and biomet operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on management and other internal resources. the attention of our management may be directed towards integration considerations and may be diverted from our day-to-day business operations, and matters related to the integration may require commitments of time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that might have been beneficial to us. the diversion of management attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. even if our businesses are successfully integrated, we may not realize the full benefits of the merger, including anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities, within the expected timeframe or at all. in addition, we expect to incur significant integration and restructuring expenses to realize synergies. however, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. any of these matters could adversely affect our businesses or harm our financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the biomet merger and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the biomet merger. at december 31, 2015, our total indebtedness was $11.6 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion at december 31, 2014. we funded the cash portion of the merger consideration, the pay-off of certain indebtedness of biomet and the payment of transaction-related expenses through a combination of available cash-on-hand and proceeds from debt financings, including proceeds from a $7.65 billion issuance of senior unsecured notes in march 2015, and borrowings of $3.0 billion under our $4.35 billion credit agreement. as of december 31, 2015, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding capital leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $339.8 million. as a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. the increased level of debt could, among other things: require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; 10 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired; adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and limit our ability to apply proceeds from a future offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. if we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our industry is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal physician payments sunshine act and similar state and foreign laws. in addition, we are subject to various federal and foreign laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters, sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration health programs. these laws are administered by, among others, the doj, the office of inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ), the sec, the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury ( ofac ), the bureau of industry and security of the u.s. department of commerce and state attorneys general. the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to change. biomet is involved in ongoing governmental investigations, the results of which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. further, if biomet fails to comply with the terms of the dpa that it entered into in march 2012, it may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. on march 26, 2012, biomet entered into a deferred prosecution agreement ( dpa ) with the doj and a consent to final judgment ( consent ) with the sec related to an investigation by the doj and the sec into possible violations of the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) in the marketing and sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries. pursuant to the dpa, the doj agreed to defer prosecution of biomet in connection with those matters, provided that biomet satisfies its obligations under the dpa over the term of the dpa. the dpa had a three-year term and provided that it could be extended in the sole discretion of the doj for an additional year. pursuant to the consent, biomet consented to the entry of a final judgment which, among other things, permanently enjoined biomet from violating the provisions of the fcpa. in addition, pursuant to the terms of the dpa, an independent external compliance monitor was appointed to review biomet compliance with the dpa, particularly in relation to biomet international sales practices. the consent that biomet entered into with the sec mirrors the dpa provisions with respect to the compliance monitor. in october 2013, biomet became aware of certain alleged improprieties regarding its operations in brazil and mexico, including alleged improprieties that predated the entry of the dpa. biomet retained counsel and other experts to investigate both matters. based on the results of the ongoing investigations, biomet has terminated, suspended or otherwise disciplined certain of the employees and executives involved in these matters, and has taken certain other remedial measures. additionally, pursuant to the terms of the dpa, in april 2014 and thereafter, biomet disclosed these matters to and discussed these matters with the independent compliance monitor and the doj and sec. on july 2, 2014 and july 13, 2015, the sec issued subpoenas to biomet requiring that biomet produce certain documents relating to such matters. these matters remain under investigation by the doj. on march 13, 2015, the doj informed biomet that the dpa and the independent compliance monitor appointment have been extended for an additional year. on april 2, 2015, at the request of the staff of the sec, biomet consented to an amendment to the final judgment to extend the term of the compliance monitor appointment for one year from the date of entry of the amended final judgment. pursuant to the dpa, the doj has sole discretion to determine whether conduct by biomet constitutes a violation or breach of the dpa. the doj has informed biomet that it retains its rights under the dpa to bring further action against biomet relating to the conduct in brazil and mexico referenced above or the violations set forth in the dpa. the doj could, among other things, revoke the dpa or prosecute biomet and/or the involved employees and executives. biomet continues to cooperate with the sec and doj and expects that discussions with the sec and the doj will continue. in june 2013, biomet received a subpoena from the u.s. attorney office for the district of new jersey requesting various documents relating to the fitting of custom-fabricated or custom-fitted orthoses, or bracing, to patients in new jersey, texas and washington. biomet has produced responsive documents and is fully cooperating with the request of the u.s. attorney office. we may need to devote significant time and resources to this inquiry and can give no assurances as to its final outcome. in july 2011, biomet received an administrative subpoena from ofac, requesting documents concerning the export of products to iran. ofac informed biomet that the subpoena related to allegations that biomet may have been involved in 11 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report unauthorized sales of dental products to iran. biomet is fully cooperating in the investigation and submitted its response to the subpoena in october 2011. we may need to devote significant time and resources to this inquiry and can give no assurances as to its final outcome. in february 2010, biomet received a subpoena from the oig-hhs requesting various documents relating to agreements or arrangements between physicians and biomet interpore cross subsidiary for the period from 1999 through the date of the subpoena and the marketing and sales activities associated with interpore cross spinal products. biomet is fully cooperating in the investigation. we may need to devote significant time and resources to this inquiry and can give no assurances as to its final outcome. as a result of the merger, all obligations and liabilities of biomet related to the above matters have been assumed by us as the combined company. from time to time, we are, and may continue to be, the subject of additional investigations. if, as a result of the investigations described above or any additional investigations, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to modify those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations. compliance with the fda requirements, including the quality system regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda, which may result in observations on form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates to foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda may also recommend prosecution to the doj. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain processes pertaining to products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. in june 2015, biomet received a warning letter from the fda that requested additional information to allow the fda to evaluate the adequacy of biomet responses to certain form 483 observations issued following an inspection of biomet zhejiang, china manufacturing facility in january 2015. as of december 31, 2015, these warning letters remained pending. until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the fda, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding these and other fda regulatory matters can be found in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have manufacturing sites all over the world. in some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. damage to one or more of our facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, or issues in our manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the quality system regulation and good manufacturing practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for regulatory approvals. as a result, we may experience loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. further, the legacy independent agents and distributors of us or biomet may decide not to renew or may decide to seek to terminate, change and/or renegotiate their relationships with us and/or biomet as a result of the merger. a loss of a significant number of the combined company agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased 13 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived over 40 percent of our net sales in 2015 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the fcpa; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party vendors and we outsource some key manufacturing activities. certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. in certain cases we may not be able to establish additional or replacement vendors for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our vendors manufacturing processes. a reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products; an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we are subject to the sec rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. we filed reports on form sd with the sec regarding such matters in june 2014 and 2015 and are required to file on an annual basis going forward. this rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. in addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products. we have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. as a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions 14 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds representing earnings of foreign subsidiaries may significantly impact our effective tax rates. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as discussed further in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the durom &reg; acetabular component ( durom cup ), certain products within the nexgen knee system, and the m2a-magnum hip system. the majority of the durom cup cases are pending in a federal multidistrict litigation ( mdl ) in the district of new jersey ( in re: zimmer durom hip cup products liability litigation ); the majority of the nexgen knee system cases are pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of illinois ( in re: zimmer nexgen knee implant products liability litigation ); and the majority of the m2a-magnum hip system cases are pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of indiana ( in re: biomet m2a magnum hip implant products liability litigation ). we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. at any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. we rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that 15 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect the integrity of our information systems and data, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, including the biomet merger, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, third parties may attempt to gain unauthorized access to our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients or our proprietary information. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: lose existing customers; have difficulty attracting new customers; have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud; have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals; have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed; incur increased operating expenses; incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach; or suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful or that systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. at december 31, 2015, we had $9.9 billion in goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity, including the biomet merger, and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required, under current u.s. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. certain investors continue to have influence over us, including in connection with decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit other stockholders ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. in connection with our acquisition of biomet, we entered into a stockholders agreement (the stockholders agreement ) with lvb acquisition holding, llc and its owners party thereto (collectively, the sponsors ). the sponsors and certain of their affiliates currently hold approximately 9.4% of our common stock. in addition, representatives of the sponsors currently have the right to designate two members of our board of directors. as a result, the sponsors potentially have the ability to influence our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction (and the terms thereof). additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one 16 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report or more of these entities may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. future sales, or the perception of future sales, by us or our existing stockholders in the public market could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. pursuant to the stockholders agreement, we have filed a shelf registration statement with the sec, registering shares of our common stock for resale by the sponsors. two of the sponsors recently completed the sale of approximately 11.0 million shares of our common stock in an underwritten offering. the sponsors own approximately 18.6 million additional shares that may be offered and sold under the resale registration statement. the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by us or our existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, our restated by-laws and the delaware general corporation law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. these provisions provide for, among other things: the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without further stockholder action; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; and the prohibition on engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the time at which a person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met, as set forth in section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. as a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. our restated by-laws designate certain delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. our restated by-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the state of delaware (or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the district of delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law or our restated certificate of incorporation or our restated by-laws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. this choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in 2015. while the particular material weakness has been remediated as of december 31, 2015, additional material weaknesses or relapses of this material weakness could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements. we are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(f) under the exchange act. as discussed in part ii, item 9a of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting during the three month period ended september 30, 2015 related to the control over accounting for non-routine, complex transactions. a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. during the fourth quarter of 2015, we executed our remediation plans to address the material weakness. however, if the remedial measures are not adhered to or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our 17 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, 31 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2015, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles and indian rupees and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2016 through june 2018. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2015 were $1,427.5 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2015 were $307.2 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2015 were euro:usd 1.21, usd:swiss franc: 0.91, usd:japanese yen 112.44, british pound:usd 1.59, usd:canadian dollar 1.22, australian dollar:usd 0.77, usd:korean won 1,125, usd:swedish krona 7.68, usd:czech koruna 22.88, usd:thai baht 35.03, usd:taiwan dollar 31.48, usd:south african rand 13.60, usd:russian ruble 65.50 and usd:indian ruppee 68.80. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2015 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2018, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): currency average amount euro $ 55.5 swiss franc 31.7 japanese yen 34.6 british pound 9.2 canadian dollar 11.0 australian dollar 15.7 korean won 3.4 swedish krona 2.5 czech koruna 0.6 thai baht 0.8 taiwan dollars 3.4 south african rand 0.6 russian rubles 0.8 indian rupees 1.7 any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net assets, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, in legal entities with non-u.s. dollar functional currencies of $2,042.4 million at december 31, 2015, primarily in euros, japanese yen and australian dollars. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 32 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. we also have short-term and long-term investments in highly-rated corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, u.s. government treasury funds, municipal bonds, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations and our cash and cash equivalents. we have multiple fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements that we have designated as fair value hedges of the fixed interest rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. the total notional amounts are $250.0 million and $300.0 million for the senior notes due 2019 and 2021, respectively. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2019, we receive a fixed interest rate of 4.625 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 133 basis points. on the interest rate swap agreements for the senior notes due 2021, we receive a fixed interest rate of 3.375 percent and pay variable interest equal to the three-month libor plus an average of 99 basis points. the interest rate swap agreements are intended to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. the objective of the instruments is to more closely align interest expense with interest income received on cash and cash equivalents. these derivative instruments are designated as fair value hedges under gaap. changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in earnings and are offset by gains or losses on the underlying debt instrument. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2015, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the principal amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on net interest expense. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, derivative instruments, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly-rated financial institutions or highly-rated debt securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents and investments. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions or counterparties issuing the debt security fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. the ongoing financial uncertainties in the euro zone impact the indirect credit exposure we have to those governments through their public hospitals. as of december 31, 2015, in greece, italy, portugal and spain, countries that have been widely recognized as presenting the highest risk, our gross short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable combined were $238.6 million. with allowances for doubtful accounts of $17.3 million recorded in those countries, the net balance was $221.3 million, representing 16 percent of our total consolidated short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable balance, net. italy and spain accounted for $194.2 million of that net amount. we are actively monitoring the situations in these countries. we maintain contact with customers in these countries on a regular basis. we continue to receive payments, albeit at a slower rate than in the past. we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate in these countries, as ultimately we believe the governments in these countries will be able to pay. to the extent the respective governments ability to fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 33 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer biomet holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, the company internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company acquired biomet during the second quarter of 2015 in a purchase business combination. management excluded biomet from its evaluation of internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015. the company will incorporate biomet into its annual report on internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016. biomet assets as of december 31, 2015 excluded from management assessment were $2,631.0 million, or 10 percent of our total assets. biomet net sales for the year ended december 31, 2015 excluded from management assessment were $1,602.0 million, or 27 percent of our total net sales. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control -integrated framework (2013) . based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of december 31, 2015, the company internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 34 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2015 form 10-k annual reportrisk factors 10 risk factors risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions. our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: unforeseen difficulties in integrating personnel and sales forces, operations, manufacturing, logistics, research and development, information technology, communications, purchasing, accounting, marketing, administration and other systems and processes; harmonizing and optimizing quality systems and operations; diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; potential loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs. as a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. these risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the biomet and ldr mergers and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the biomet and ldr holding corporation ( ldr ) mergers. at december 31, 2016, our total indebtedness was $11.2 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion at december 31, 2014. we funded the cash portion of the biomet merger consideration, the pay-off of certain indebtedness of biomet and the payment of transaction-related expenses through a combination of available cash-on-hand and proceeds from debt financings, including proceeds from a $7.65 billion issuance of senior unsecured notes in march 2015 and borrowings of $3.0 billion under a five-year term loan in june 2015. in addition, in september 2016, we borrowed $750 million under a three-year unsecured term loan facility and utilized these funds to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving facility incurred in connection with the acquisition of ldr. also, in december 2016, we issued 1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes and used the proceeds to repay a portion of the u.s. dollar-denominated senior notes issued in connection with the biomet merger. as of december 31, 2016, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding capital leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $891.1 million. as a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. the increased level of debt could, among other things: require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 10 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired; adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and limit our ability to apply proceeds from a future offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. if we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse or data privacy and security laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our industry is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal physician payments sunshine act and similar state and foreign laws. in addition, we are subject to various federal and foreign laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters, sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration health programs. these laws are administered by, among others, the doj, the oig-hhs, the sec, the ofac, the bureau of industry and security of the u.s. department of commerce and state attorneys general. we are also subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure and protection of health-related and other personal information. certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under hipaa. the fda also has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices. international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and member state implementing legislation, may also apply to some of our operations and restrict our ability to collect, analyze and transfer eu personal data. moreover, the general data protection regulation, an eu-wide regulation that will be fully enforceable by may 25, 2018, will introduce new data protection requirements in the eu and substantial fines for violations of the data protection rules. the interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change. if we fail to comply with the terms of the dpa that we entered into in january 2017, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. on january 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed fcpa matters involving biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. as part of the settlement, we entered into a dpa with the doj. a copy of the dpa is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. if we do not comply with the terms of the dpa, we could be subject to prosecution for violating the internal controls provisions of the fcpa and the conduct of biomet and its subsidiaries described in the dpa, which conduct pre-dated our acquisition of biomet, as well as any new or continuing violations. we could also be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations. compliance with the fda requirements, including the qsr, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda, which may result in observations on form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates to foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda may also impose operating restrictions including a ceasing of operations, on one or more facilities, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda could also issue a corporate warning letter, a recidivist warning letter or a consent decree of permanent injunction. the fda may also recommend prosecution to the doj. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and 11 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain processes pertaining to products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. in june 2015, biomet received a warning letter from the fda that requested additional information to allow the fda to evaluate the adequacy of biomet responses to certain form 483 observations issued following an inspection of biomet zhejiang, china manufacturing facility in january 2015. in may 2016, we received a warning letter from the fda related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the qsr at our facility in montreal, quebec, canada. as of december 31, 2016, these warning letters remained pending. until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the fda as described above, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding these and other fda regulatory matters can be found in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have manufacturing sites all over the world. in some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. damage to one or more of our facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, or issues in our manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the qsr and good manufacturing practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for regulatory approvals. as a result, we may experience loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of our agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the musculoskeletal implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; 12 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived nearly 40 percent of our net sales in 2016 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the fcpa; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. 13 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party vendors and we outsource some key manufacturing activities. certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. in certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement vendors for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our vendors manufacturing processes. a reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products; an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we are subject to the sec rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. this rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. in addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products. we have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures. as a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds representing earnings of foreign subsidiaries may significantly impact our effective tax rates. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as discussed further in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the durom &reg; acetabular component ( durom cup ), certain products within the nexgen knee system, and the m2a-magnum tm hip system. the majority of the durom cup cases are pending in a federal multidistrict litigation ( mdl ) in the district of new jersey ( in re: zimmer durom hip cup products liability litigation ); the majority of the nexgen knee system cases are pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of illinois ( in re: zimmer nexgen knee implant products liability litigation ); and the majority of the m2a-magnum hip system cases are pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of indiana ( in re: biomet m2a magnum hip implant products liability litigation ). we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would 14 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. at any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. we rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. for example, as discussed further in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, we are defending a purported class action lawsuit, shah v. zimmer biomet holdings, inc. et al., filed against us and certain of our officers alleging violations of the securities laws related to our third quarter 2016 performance and 2016 forecasts. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect our information systems or data, including from data breaches, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, including the biomet merger, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. we also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and, as a result, we manage a number of third-party vendors who may or could have access to our confidential information. our information systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, given their size and complexity, these systems could be vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party vendors and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties attempting to gain unauthorized access to our products, systems or confidential information (including, but not limited to, intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information). cyber-attacks, such as those involving the deployment of malware, are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity and have become increasingly difficult to detect. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: lose existing customers; have difficulty attracting new customers; 15 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud; have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals; have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed; incur increased operating expenses; incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach; or suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful. despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that cyber-attacks or data breaches will not occur or that systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, breach, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. we have determined that a material weakness exists in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in a material misstatement in our financial statements. we are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rule 13a-15(e) and 13a-15(f) under the exchange act. as discussed in management report on internal control over financial reporting appearing under item 7a of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 related to management controls over accounting for income taxes. a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. as a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of december 31, 2016. we are actively engaged in developing and implementing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. however, we cannot provide any assurance that these remediation efforts will be successful or that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective as a result of these efforts. if the remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness or if additional material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. at december 31, 2016, we had $10.5 billion in goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity, including the biomet merger, and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required, under current u.s. accounting rules, to record a non-cash charge to operating earnings for the amount of the impairment. any write-off of a material portion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. recent developments relating to the united kingdom referendum vote in favor of leaving the european union could adversely affect us. the united kingdom (uk) held a referendum on june 23, 2016 in which voters approved the uk voluntary exit from the european union (eu), commonly referred to as brexit . the announcement of brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the effects of brexit are expected to be far-reaching. brexit and the perceptions as to its impact may adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in europe and globally and could continue to contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets. brexit could also have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and people between the uk and the eu; however, the full effects of brexit are uncertain and will depend on any agreements the uk may make to retain access to eu markets. brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. also, as a result of brexit, other european countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the eu. given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by brexit is uncertain. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, our restated by-laws and the delaware general corporation law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. these provisions provide for, among other things: the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without further stockholder action; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; 16 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; and the prohibition on engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the time at which a person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met, as set forth in section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. as a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. our restated by-laws designate certain delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. our restated by-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the state of delaware (or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the district of delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law or our restated certificate of incorporation or our restated by-laws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. this choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2016, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2017 through june 2019. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2016 were $1,512.6 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2016 were $315.7 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2016 were euro:usd 1.15, usd:swiss franc 0.94, usd:japanese yen 108.35, british pound:usd 1.52, usd:canadian dollar 1.29, australian dollar:usd 0.74, usd:korean won 1,153, usd:swedish krona 8.27, usd:czech koruna 23.65, usd:thai baht 36.05, usd:taiwan dollar 32.14, usd:south african rand 15.56, usd:russian ruble 69.92, usd:indian ruppee 71.77, usd:turkish lira 3.20, usd:polish zloty 3.91, usd:danish krone 6.56, and usd:norwegian krone 8.31. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2016 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2018, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): currency average amount euro $ 51.9 swiss franc 32.7 japanese yen 39.6 british pound 6.6 canadian dollar 15.1 australian dollar 18.7 korean won 3.1 swedish krona 2.6 czech koruna 0.7 thai baht 0.6 taiwan dollars 3.3 south african rand 0.5 russian rubles 1.1 indian rupees 1.5 turkish lira 0.5 polish zloty 0.7 danish krone 3.6 norwegian krone 1.9 31 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net assets, excluding goodwill, in legal entities with non-u.s. dollar functional currencies of $2,935.8 million at december 31, 2016, primarily in euros, japanese yen and australian dollars. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair value methodologies, see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations and our cash and cash equivalents. we have multiple variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements that we have designated as cash flow hedges of the variable interest rate obligations on our term loan b. the total notional amount is $375.0 million. the interest rate swaps minimize the exposure to changes in the libor interest rates while the variable-rate debt is outstanding. the weighted average fixed interest rate for all of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements is approximately 0.82 percent through september 30, 2019. the interest rate swap agreements are intended to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. the objective of the instruments is to limit exposure to interest rate movements. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair value methodologies, see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2016, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the principal amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on net interest expense. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly-rated financial institutions or highly-rated debt securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions or counterparties issuing the debt security fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries national economic and healthcare systems. most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. 32 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report the ongoing financial uncertainties in the euro zone impact the indirect credit exposure we have to those governments through their public hospitals. as of december 31, 2016, in greece, italy, portugal and spain, countries that have been widely recognized as presenting the highest risk, our gross short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable combined were $193.8 million. with allowances for doubtful accounts of $16.6 million recorded in those countries, the net balance was $177.2 million, representing 12 percent of our total consolidated short-term and long-term trade accounts receivable balance, net. italy and spain accounted for $159.7 million of that net amount. we are actively monitoring the situations in these countries. we maintain contact with customers in these countries on a regular basis. we continue to receive payments, albeit at a slower rate than in the past. we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate in these countries, as ultimately we believe the governments in these countries will be able to pay. to the extent the respective governments ability to fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 33 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report management report on internal control over financial reporting the management of zimmer biomet holdings, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting is defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) promulgated under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. the company management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016. in making this assessment, the company management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) in internal control-integrated framework (2013). a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. based on their assessment, management concluded that the company did not maintain effective controls over its accounting for income taxes. specifically, the company did not maintain the appropriate complement of resources in its tax department commensurate with the increased volume and complexity of accounting for income taxes subsequent to the biomet merger. this material weakness did not result in a material misstatement to the company financial statements or disclosures, but did result in out-of-period adjustments in the company provision for income taxes and deferred tax liabilities that were individually and in aggregate immaterial. additionally, this control deficiency could result in misstatements of income tax related accounts and disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. accordingly, the company management has determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness. because of this material weakness, management concluded that the company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016. the company independent registered public accounting firm has audited the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, as stated in its report which appears in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. 34 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report we considered this material weakness in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the december 31, 2016 consolidated financial statements and our opinion regarding the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting does not affect our opinion on those consolidated financial statements. the company management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in management report referred to above. our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ pricewaterhousecoopers llp chicago, illinois march 1, 2017 36 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of earnings (in millions, except per share amounts) for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 net sales $7,683.9 $ 5,997.8 $ 4,673.3 cost of products sold, excluding intangible asset amortization 2,381.8 1,800.6 1,242.8 intangible asset amortization 565.9 337.4 92.5 research and development 365.6 268.8 187.4 selling, general and administrative 2,932.9 2,284.2 1,750.7 certain claims (note 20) 7.7 21.5 special items (note 2) 611.8 831.8 341.1 operating expenses 6,858.0 5,530.5 3,636.0 operating profit 825.9 467.3 1,037.3 other expense, net (71.3 ) (36.9 ) (46.7 ) interest income 2.9 9.4 11.9 interest expense (357.9 ) (286.6 ) (63.1 ) earnings before income taxes 399.6 153.2 939.4 provision for income taxes 95.0 7.0 220.2 net earnings 304.6 146.2 719.2 less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (1.3 ) (0.8 ) (1.1 ) net earnings of zimmer biomet holdings, inc. $ 305.9 $ 147.0 $ 720.3 earnings per common share basic $ 1.53 $ 0.78 $ 4.26 earnings per common share diluted $ 1.51 $ 0.77 $ 4.20 weighted average common shares outstanding basic 200.0 187.4 169.0 diluted 202.4 189.8 171.7 cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.96 $ 0.88 $ 0.88 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 37 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) (in millions) for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 net earnings $ 304.6 $ 146.2 $ 719.2 other comprehensive income (loss): foreign currency cumulative translation adjustments, net of tax (130.0 ) (305.2 ) (223.1 ) unrealized cash flow hedge gains, net of tax 28.3 52.7 55.9 reclassification adjustments on cash flow hedges, net of tax (25.8 ) (93.0 ) (18.9 ) unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, net of tax 0.5 (0.2 ) (0.5 ) reclassification adjustments on securities, net of tax (0.4 ) adjustments to prior service cost and unrecognized actuarial assumptions, net of tax 22.0 (21.4 ) (75.8 ) total other comprehensive (loss) (105.0 ) (367.1 ) (262.8 ) comprehensive income (loss) 199.6 (220.9 ) 456.4 comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (0.5 ) (0.3 ) (1.0 ) comprehensive income (loss) attributable to zimmer biomet holdings, inc. $ 200.1 $ (220.6 ) $ 457.4 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 38 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report consolidated balance sheets (in millions) as of december 31, 2016 2015 assets current assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 634.1 $ 1,459.3 short-term investments 164.6 accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts 1,604.4 1,446.5 inventories 1,959.4 2,254.1 prepaid expenses and other current assets 465.7 529.2 total current assets 4,663.6 5,853.7 property, plant and equipment, net 2,037.9 2,062.6 goodwill 10,643.9 9,934.2 intangible assets, net 8,785.4 8,746.3 other assets 553.6 563.8 total assets $ 26,684.4 $ 27,160.6 liabilities and stockholders equity current liabilities: accounts payable $ 364.5 $ 284.8 income taxes payable 183.5 147.2 other current liabilities 1,257.9 1,185.9 current portion of long-term debt 575.6 total current liabilities 2,381.5 1,617.9 deferred income taxes 3,030.9 3,150.2 other long-term liabilities 936.3 1,005.7 long-term debt 10,665.8 11,497.4 total liabilities 17,014.5 17,271.2 commitments and contingencies (note 20) stockholders equity: common stock, $0.01 par value, one billion shares authorized, 304.7 million (302.7 million in 2015) issued 3.1 3.0 paid-in capital 8,368.5 8,195.3 retained earnings 8,467.1 8,347.7 accumulated other comprehensive loss (434.0 ) (329.0 ) treasury stock, 104.1 million shares (100.0 million shares in 2015) (6,735.8 ) (6,329.1 ) total zimmer biomet holdings, inc. stockholders equity 9,668.9 9,887.9 noncontrolling interest 1.0 1.5 total stockholders equity 9,669.9 9,889.4 total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 26,684.4 $ 27,160.6 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 39 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of stockholders equity (in millions) zimmer biomet holdings, inc. stockholders noncontrolling interest total stockholders equity common shares paid-in capital retained earnings accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) treasury shares number amount number amount balance january 1, 2014 264.3 $ 2.6 $ 4,000.6 $ 7,789.4 $ 300.9 (94.5 ) $ (5,785.7 ) $ 2.8 $ 6,310.6 net earnings 720.3 (1.1 ) 719.2 other comprehensive income (262.8 ) 0.1 (262.7 ) cash dividends declared (148.6 ) (148.6 ) stock compensation plans 4.1 0.1 330.1 1.0 2.5 333.7 share repurchases (4.2 ) (400.5 ) (400.5 ) balance december 31, 2014 268.4 2.7 4,330.7 8,362.1 38.1 (98.7 ) (6,183.7 ) 1.8 6,551.7 net earnings 147.0 (0.8 ) 146.2 other comprehensive loss (367.1 ) 0.5 (366.6 ) cash dividends declared (164.4 ) (164.4 ) stock compensation plans 1.6 142.2 3.0 0.1 4.6 149.8 share repurchases (1.4 ) (150.0 ) (150.0 ) biomet merger consideration 32.7 0.3 3,722.4 3,722.7 balance december 31, 2015 302.7 3.0 8,195.3 8,347.7 (329.0 ) (100.0 ) (6,329.1 ) 1.5 9,889.4 net earnings 305.9 (1.3 ) 304.6 other comprehensive loss (105.0 ) 0.8 (104.2 ) cash dividends declared (191.9 ) (191.9 ) stock compensation plans 2.0 0.1 173.2 5.4 0.1 8.8 187.5 share repurchases (4.2 ) (415.5 ) (415.5 ) balance december 31, 2016 304.7 $ 3.1 $ 8,368.5 $ 8,467.1 $ (434.0 ) (104.1 ) $ (6,735.8 ) $ 1.0 $ 9,669.9 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 40 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities: net earnings $ 304.6 $ 146.2 $ 719.2 adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation and amortization 1,039.3 712.4 375.8 biomet merger consideration compensation expense 90.4 intangible asset impairment 30.0 share-based compensation 57.3 46.4 49.4 excess income tax benefit from stock option exercises (11.8 ) (11.1 ) inventory step-up 323.3 317.8 5.4 gain on divestiture of assets (19.0 ) debt extinguishment 53.3 22.0 deferred income tax provision (153.2 ) (164.0 ) (90.5 ) changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquired assets and liabilities income taxes (10.9 ) 244.7 (13.2 ) receivables (137.8 ) (56.1 ) (40.4 ) inventories 76.4 (205.4 ) (164.6 ) accounts payable and accrued liabilities 28.7 (252.0 ) 116.1 other assets and liabilities 21.2 (21.8 ) 114.4 net cash provided by operating activities 1,632.2 849.8 1,060.5 cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities: additions to instruments (345.5 ) (266.4 ) (197.4 ) additions to other property, plant and equipment (184.7 ) (167.7 ) (144.9 ) purchases of investments (1.5 ) (214.8 ) (1,350.9 ) sales of investments 286.2 802.9 1,282.2 proceeds from divestiture of assets 69.9 biomet acquisition, net of acquired cash (7,760.1 ) ldr acquisition, net of acquired cash (1,021.1 ) business combination investments, net of acquired cash (421.9 ) (54.3 ) investments in other assets (3.0 ) (21.7 ) (4.1 ) net cash used in investing activities (1,691.5 ) (7,557.9 ) (469.4 ) cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities: proceeds from (payments on) senior notes 1,073.5 7,628.2 (250.0 ) proceeds from term loan 750.0 3,000.0 redemption of senior notes (1,250.0 ) (2,762.0 ) payments on term loan (800.0 ) (500.0 ) net proceeds (payments) under revolving credit facilities (33.1 ) 0.1 2.3 dividends paid to stockholders (188.4 ) (157.1 ) (145.5 ) proceeds from employee stock compensation plans 136.6 105.2 284.7 restricted stock withholdings (6.3 ) (11.1 ) (7.7 ) excess income tax benefit from stock option exercises 11.8 11.1 debt issuance costs (10.0 ) (58.4 ) (64.1 ) repurchase of common stock (415.5 ) (150.0 ) (400.9 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (743.2 ) 7,106.7 (570.1 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (22.7 ) (22.6 ) (18.3 ) (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (825.2 ) 376.0 2.7 cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 1,459.3 1,083.3 1,080.6 cash and cash equivalents, end of period $ 634.1 $ 1,459.3 $ 1,083.3 the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 41 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements 1. business we design, manufacture and market orthopaedic reconstructive products; sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products; office based technologies; spine, craniomaxillofacial and thoracic products; dental implants; and related surgical products. we collaborate with healthcare professionals around the globe to advance the pace of innovation. our products and solutions help treat patients suffering from disorders of, or injuries to, bones, joints or supporting soft tissues. together with healthcare professionals, we help millions of people live better lives. on june 24, 2015 (the closing date ), pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger dated april 24, 2014, we acquired lvb acquisition, inc. ( lvb ), the parent company of biomet, inc. ( biomet ), and lvb and biomet became our wholly-owned subsidiaries (sometimes hereinafter referred to as the biomet merger or the merger ). for more information on the merger, see note 3. in connection with the merger, we changed our name from zimmer holdings, inc. to zimmer biomet holdings, inc. the words zimmer biomet, we, us, our, the company and similar words refer to zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries. zimmer biomet holdings refers to the parent company only. zimmer used alone refers to the business or information of us and our subsidiaries on a stand-alone basis without inclusion of the business or information of lvb or any of its subsidiaries. 2. significant accounting policies basis of presentation the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of zimmer biomet holdings and its subsidiaries in which it holds a controlling financial interest. all significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. certain amounts in the 2015 and 2014 consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2016 presentation. use of estimates the consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates. foreign currency translation the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into u.s. dollars using period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates for operating results. unrealized translation gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. when a transaction is denominated in a currency other than the subsidiary functional currency, we recognize a transaction gain or loss when the transaction is settled. foreign currency transaction gains and losses included in net earnings for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were not significant. revenue recognition we sell product through three principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, referred to as direct channel accounts; 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers; and 3) directly to dental practices and dental laboratories. the direct channel accounts represented approximately 80 percent of our net sales in 2016. through this channel, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers so that products are available when needed for surgical procedures. no revenue is recognized upon the placement of inventory into consignment as we retain title and maintain the inventory on our balance sheet. upon implantation, we issue an invoice and revenue is recognized. pricing for products is generally predetermined by contracts with customers, agents acting on behalf of customer groups or by government regulatory bodies, depending on the market. price discounts under group purchasing contracts are generally linked to volume of implant purchases by customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. at negotiated thresholds within a contract buying period, price discounts may increase. sales to stocking distributors, healthcare dealers, dental practices and dental laboratories accounted for approximately 20 percent of our net sales in 2016. with these types of sales, revenue is recognized when title to product passes, either upon shipment of the product or in some cases upon implantation of the product. product is generally sold at contractually fixed prices for specified periods. payment terms vary by customer, but are typically less than 90 days. if sales incentives are earned by a customer for purchasing a specified amount of our product, we estimate whether such incentives will be achieved and, if so, recognize these incentives as a reduction in revenue in the same period the underlying revenue transaction is recognized. occasionally, products are returned and, accordingly, we maintain an estimated sales return reserve that is recorded as a reduction in revenue. product returns were not significant for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented on a net basis and excluded from revenues. shipping and handling amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling of products are reflected in net sales and are not significant. expenses incurred related to shipping and handling of products are reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses and were $231.7 million, $214.2 million and $181.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. research and development we expense all research and development ( r&amp;d ) costs as incurred except when there is alternative future use for the r&amp;d. r&amp;d costs include salaries, prototypes, depreciation of equipment used in r&amp;d, consultant fees and service fees paid to collaborative partners. 42 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) where contingent milestone payments are due to third parties under r&amp;d arrangements, the milestone payment obligations are expensed when the milestone results are achieved. litigation we record a liability for contingent losses, including future legal costs, settlements and judgments, when we consider it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. special items we recognize expenses resulting directly from our business combinations, employee termination benefits, certain r&amp;d agreements, certain contract terminations, consulting and professional fees and asset impairment or loss on disposal charges connected with global restructuring, quality and operational excellence initiatives, and other items as special items in our consolidated statement of earnings. special items included (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 biomet-related merger consideration compensation expense $ $ 90.4 $ retention plans 73.0 consulting and professional fees 220.4 167.4 61.5 employee termination benefits 50.8 101.0 dedicated project personnel 79.8 62.3 0.4 relocated facilities 19.1 5.6 certain litigation matters 2.5 contract terminations 39.9 95.0 information technology integration 14.3 5.2 intangible asset impairment 30.0 loss/impairment on assets 13.0 other 17.5 19.2 total biomet-related 487.3 619.1 61.9 other consulting and professional fees 33.0 114.8 115.2 employee termination benefits 7.0 1.9 0.9 dedicated project personnel 17.3 31.8 50.4 relocated facilities 0.2 0.7 certain litigation matters 30.8 31.2 70.0 contract terminations 2.9 1.8 information technology integration 1.3 1.8 intangible asset impairment 1.1 24.0 loss/impairment on assets 3.8 6.0 ldr merger consideration compensation expense 24.1 contingent consideration adjustments 2.4 0.6 certain r&amp;d agreements 4.5 distributor acquisitions 0.6 other 6.8 25.0 4.5 total other 124.5 212.7 279.2 special items $ 611.8 $ 831.8 $ 341.1 pursuant to the biomet merger agreement, all outstanding lvb stock options and lvb stock-based awards vested immediately prior to the effective time of the merger, and holders of these options and awards received a portion of the aggregate merger consideration. some of these options and awards were already vested under the terms of lvb equity incentive plans. we accounted for the fair value of the consideration we paid in exchange for previously vested options and awards as consideration to complete the merger. as part of the merger agreement terms, all previously unvested options and awards vested immediately prior to the effective time of the merger. under lvb equity incentive plans, unvested options and awards would have otherwise been forfeited. we have concluded that the discretionary accelerated vesting of these unvested options and awards was for the economic benefit of the combined company, and, therefore, we classified the fair value of the merger consideration we paid to holders of such unvested options and awards of $90.4 million as compensation expense in 2015. under similar terms, a portion of ldr holding corporation ( ldr ) stock options and ldr stock-based awards vested immediately before the ldr merger and we recognized compensation expense of $24.1 million in 2016. pursuant to the lvb merger agreement, retention plans were established for certain biomet employees and third-party sales agents. retention payments were earned by employees and third-party sales agents who remained with biomet through the closing date. we recognized $73.0 million of expense resulting from these retention plans in 2015. consulting and professional fees relate to third-party integration consulting performed in a variety of areas such as tax, compliance, logistics and human resources for our business combinations and merger with biomet; legal fees related to the consummation of mergers and acquisitions and certain litigation and compliance matters; third-party consulting and professional fees and contract labor related to our quality and operational excellence initiatives; third-party fees related to severance and termination benefits matters; and third-party consulting fees related to certain information system integrations. after the closing date of the biomet merger, we started to implement our integration plans to drive operational synergies. our biomet integration plans are expected to run through 2018. part of these integration plans included termination of employees and certain contracts. expenses attributable to these integration plans that were recognized in the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 as part of special items related to employee termination benefits and contract termination expense associated with agreements with independent agents, distributors, suppliers and lessors. we expect to incur a total of $170 million for employee termination benefits and $140 million for contract termination expense. as of december 31, 2016, we have incurred a cumulative total of $151.8 million for employee termination benefits and $134.9 million for contract termination expense. 43 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) accordingly, our integration plans with respect to employee termination benefits and contract termination expenses are substantially complete. the following table summarizes the liabilities related to these integration plans (in millions): employee termination benefits contract terminations total balance, december 31, 2015 $ 46.8 $ 56.0 $ 102.8 additions 50.8 39.9 90.7 cash payments (58.4 ) (60.6 ) (119.0 ) foreign currency exchange rate changes (1.1 ) (0.2 ) (1.3 ) balance, december 31, 2016 $ 38.1 $ 35.1 $ 73.2 we have also recognized other employee termination benefits related to ldr, other acquisitions and our operational excellence initiatives. dedicated project personnel expenses include the salary, benefits, travel expenses and other costs directly associated with employees who are 100 percent dedicated to our quality and operational excellence initiatives or integration of acquired businesses. relocated facilities expenses are the moving costs and the lease expenses incurred during the relocation period in connection with relocating certain facilities. certain litigation matters relate to net expenses recognized during the year for the estimated or actual settlement of certain pending litigation and similar claims, including matters where we recognized income from a settlement on more favorable terms than our previous estimate, or we reduced our estimate of a previously recorded contingent liability. these litigation matters have included royalty disputes, patent litigation matters, product liability litigation matters and commercial litigation matters. contract termination costs relate to terminated agreements in connection with the integration of acquired companies and changes to our distribution model as part of business restructuring and operational excellence initiatives. the terminated contracts primarily relate to sales agents and distribution agreements. information technology integration costs are non-capitalizable costs incurred related to integrating information technology platforms of acquired companies or other significant software implementations as part of our quality and operational excellence initiatives. as part of the biomet merger, we recognized $209.0 million of intangible assets for in-process research and development ( ipr&amp;d ) projects. during 2016, we recorded an impairment loss of $30.0 million related to these ipr&amp;d intangible assets. the impairment was primarily due to the termination of certain ipr&amp;d projects. loss/impairment on disposal of assets relates to assets that we have sold or intend to sell, or for which the economic useful life of the asset has been significantly reduced due to integration or our quality and operational excellence initiatives. contingent consideration adjustments represent the changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations to be paid to the prior owners of acquired businesses. certain r&amp;d agreements relate to agreements with upfront payments to obtain intellectual property to be used in r&amp;d projects that have no alternative future use in other projects. over the past few years we have acquired a number of u.s. and foreign-based distributors. we have incurred various costs related to the consummation and integration of those businesses. cash and cash equivalents we consider all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. the carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents are valued at cost, which approximates their fair value. investments we invest our excess cash and cash equivalents in debt securities. our investments include corporate debt securities, u.s. government and agency debt securities, foreign government debt securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit, and are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. available-for-sale debt securities are recorded at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. investments with a contractual maturity of less than one year are classified as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheet, or in other non-current assets if the contractual maturity is greater than one year. changes in fair value for available-for-sale securities are recorded, net of taxes, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet. we review our investments for other-than-temporary impairment at each reporting period. if an unrealized loss for any investment is considered to be other-than-temporary, the loss will be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings in the period the determination is made. see note 7 for more information regarding our investments. accounts receivable accounts receivable consists of trade and other miscellaneous receivables. we grant credit to customers in the normal course of business and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for potential credit losses. we determine the allowance for doubtful accounts by geographic market and take into consideration historical credit experience, creditworthiness of the customer and other pertinent information. we make concerted efforts to collect all accounts receivable, but sometimes we have to write-off the account against the allowance when we determine the account is uncollectible. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $51.6 million and $34.1 million as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in first-out basis. 44 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of ten to forty years for buildings and improvements and three to eight years for machinery and equipment. maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. we review property, plant and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. an impairment loss would be recognized when estimated future undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset are less than its carrying amount. an impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its fair value. software costs we capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use when both the preliminary project stage is completed and it is probable that the software will be used as intended. capitalized software costs generally include external direct costs of materials and services utilized in developing or obtaining computer software and compensation and related benefits for employees who are directly associated with the software project. capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight-line or weighted average estimated user basis when the software is ready for its intended use over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate three to fifteen years. instruments instruments are hand-held devices used by surgeons during total joint replacement and other surgical procedures. instruments are recognized as long-lived assets and are included in property, plant and equipment. undeployed instruments are carried at cost or realizable value. instruments in the field are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on average estimated useful lives, determined principally in reference to associated product life cycles, primarily five years. we review instruments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an instrument may not be recoverable. depreciation of instruments is recognized as selling, general and administrative expense. goodwill goodwill is not amortized but is subject to annual impairment tests. goodwill has been assigned to reporting units. we perform annual impairment tests by either comparing a reporting unit estimated fair value to its carrying amount or doing a qualitative assessment of a reporting unit fair value from the last quantitative assessment to determine if there is potential impairment. we may do a qualitative assessment when the results of the previous quantitative test indicated the reporting unit estimated fair value was significantly in excess of the carrying value of its net assets and we do not believe there have been significant changes in the reporting unit operations that would significantly decrease its estimated fair value or significantly increase its net assets. if a quantitative assessment is performed, the fair value of the reporting unit and the implied fair value of goodwill are determined based upon a discounted cash flow analysis and/or use of a market approach by looking at market values of comparable companies. significant assumptions are incorporated into our discounted cash flow analyses such as estimated growth rates and risk-adjusted discount rates. we perform this test in the fourth quarter of the year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the reporting unit assets may not be recoverable. if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit goodwill. see note 10 for more information regarding goodwill. intangible assets intangible assets are initially measured at their fair value. we have determined the fair value of our intangible assets either by the fair value of the consideration exchanged for the intangible asset or the estimated after-tax discounted cash flows expected to be generated from the intangible asset. intangible assets with an indefinite life, including certain trademarks and trade names, are not amortized. indefinite life intangible assets are assessed annually to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite life. intangible assets with a finite life, including core and developed technology, certain trademarks and trade names, customer-related intangibles, intellectual property rights and patents and licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life, ranging from less than one year to 20 years. intangible assets with a finite life are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. intangible assets with an indefinite life are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. the amount of the impairment loss to be recorded would be determined based upon the excess of the asset carrying value over its fair value. the fair values of indefinite lived intangible assets are determined based upon a discounted cash flow analysis using the relief from royalty method or a qualitative assessment may be performed for any changes to the asset fair value from the last quantitative assessment. the relief from royalty method estimates the cost savings associated with owning, rather than licensing, assets. significant assumptions are incorporated into these discounted cash flow analyses such as estimated growth rates, royalty rates and risk-adjusted discount rates. we may do a qualitative assessment when the results of the previous quantitative test indicated that the asset fair value was significantly in excess of its carrying value. in determining the useful lives of intangible assets, we consider the expected use of the assets and the effects of 45 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) obsolescence, demand, competition, anticipated technological advances, changes in surgical techniques, market influences and other economic factors. for technology-based intangible assets, we consider the expected life cycles of products, absent unforeseen technological advances, which incorporate the corresponding technology. trademarks and trade names that do not have a wasting characteristic (i.e., there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which limit the useful life) are assigned an indefinite life. trademarks and trade names that are related to products expected to be phased out are assigned lives consistent with the period in which the products bearing each brand are expected to be sold. for customer relationship intangible assets, we assign useful lives based upon historical levels of customer attrition. intellectual property rights are assigned useful lives that approximate the contractual life of any related patent or the period for which we maintain exclusivity over the intellectual property. income taxes we account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. the effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period the new tax rate is enacted. we reduce our deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. in making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operations. in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred income tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, we would make an adjustment to the valuation allowance which would reduce the provision for income taxes. federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the u.s. we operate on a global basis and are subject to numerous and complex tax laws and regulations. our income tax filings are regularly under audit in multiple federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. income tax audits may require an extended period of time to reach resolution and may result in significant income tax adjustments when interpretation of tax laws or allocation of company profits is disputed. because income tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, we record accruals representing management best estimate of the probable resolution of these matters. to the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome. derivative financial instruments we measure all derivative instruments at fair value and report them on our consolidated balance sheet as assets or liabilities. we maintain written policies and procedures that permit, under appropriate circumstances and subject to proper authorization, the use of derivative financial instruments solely for risk management purposes. the use of derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes is prohibited by our policy. see note 14 for more information regarding our derivative and hedging activities. other comprehensive income (loss) other comprehensive income (loss) ( oci ) refers to revenues, expenses, gains and losses that under generally accepted accounting principles are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from net earnings as these amounts are recorded directly as an adjustment to stockholders equity. our oci is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and amortization of prior service costs and unrecognized gains and losses in actuarial assumptions. treasury stock we account for repurchases of common stock under the cost method and present treasury stock as a reduction of stockholders equity. we reissue common stock held in treasury only for limited purposes. noncontrolling interest we have an investment in another company in which we have a controlling financial interest, but not 100 percent of the equity. further information related to the noncontrolling interests of that investment has not been provided as it is not significant to our consolidated financial statements. accounting pronouncements in april 2015, the fasb issued accounting standard update ( asu ) 2015-03 simplifying the presentation of debt issuance costs. this asu requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. this asu does not affect the measurement and recognition of debt issuance costs in our statement of earnings. we adopted asu 2015-03 in 2016 on a retrospective basis. accordingly, we reclassified the debt issuance costs on our december 31, 2015 consolidated balance sheet, which decreased long-term debt by $58.9 million, other current assets by $9.2 million and other assets by $49.7 million. in march 2016, the fasb issued asu 2016-09 improvements to employee share-based payment accounting. this asu simplifies several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payments, including the accounting for employer tax withholding on share-based compensation, forfeitures and the financial statement presentation of excess tax benefits and deficiencies. the asu also clarifies the statement of cash flows presentation for certain components of share-based awards. we elected to early adopt asu 2016-09 in 2016. as a result of the adoption, we are required to recognize excess tax 46 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) benefits in our provision for income taxes, rather than paid-in capital. the asu required prospective application of this provision and therefore 2015 and 2014 have not been restated. additionally, asu 2016-09 requires us to amend the presentation of employee shared-based payment-related items in our statement of cash flows as follows: (i) excess tax benefits are presented as an operating activity (such cash flows were previously included in cash flows from financing activities), and (ii) cash paid for employee taxes on withheld shares from equity awards is presented as a financing activity (such cash flows were previously included in cash flows from operating activities). we elected to apply the change in cash flow classification for excess tax benefits on a prospective basis. further, we applied the change in cash flow classification for cash paid for withheld shares on a retrospective basis, as required. we also elected to continue to estimate the number of forfeitures related to share-based payments, rather than account for forfeitures as they occur. we recognized excess tax benefits of $13.3 million in our provision for income taxes rather than paid-in capital for the year ended december 31, 2016. the retrospective application of cash paid for withheld shares resulted in an $11.1 million and $7.7 million reclassification of these cash outflows from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash (used in) provided by financing activities on our consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. in august 2016 the fasb issued asu 2016-15 classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments. this asu provided guidance on eight issues which were not specifically addressed under previous gaap. the only issue of significance to us provided guidance that cash payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs should be classified as cash outflows from financing activities. we early adopted this asu in 2016, and as a result, classified $38.5 million of early tender debt premium costs as cash outflows from financing activities. the asu required a retrospective transition method, which resulted in a reclassification of $22.0 million of debt extinguishment cash outflows from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash (used in) provided by financing activities in the year ended december 31, 2015. in may 2014, the fasb issued asu 2014-09 revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606). this asu provides a five-step model for revenue recognition that all industries will apply to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of a good or service. the asu will be effective for us beginning january 1, 2018. entities are permitted to apply the standard and related amendments either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the asu recognized at the date of initial application. during the fourth quarter of 2016, we commenced an initial evaluation of the new standard and a related assessment and review of a representative sample of existing revenue contracts with our customers. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of the new standard on the timing and pattern of our revenue recognition. it is likely we will be required to provide additional disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements upon adoption. we have not yet determined the effect of the asu on our internal control over financial reporting or other changes in business practices and processes but will do so in the design and implementation phase to occur over the next year. we continue to evaluate the available adoption methods. our evaluation of asu 2014-09 is ongoing and not complete. in february 2016, the fasb issued asu 2016-02 leases. this asu requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. this asu will be effective for us beginning january 1, 2019. early adoption is permitted. the asu must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition approach at the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the consolidated financial statements. we own most of our manufacturing facilities, but lease various office space throughout the world. we are currently evaluating the impact this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. in october 2016, the fasb issued asu 2016-16 intra-entity asset transfers of assets other than inventory. the asu changes the accounting for the tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers/sales. under current gaap, the tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers/sales are deferred until the transferred asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. under the new guidance, the tax expense from the sale of the asset in the seller tax jurisdiction is recognized when the transfer occurs, even though the pre-tax effects of that transaction are eliminated in consolidation. any deferred tax asset that arises in the buyer jurisdiction would also be recognized at the time of the transfer. the new guidance does not apply to intra-entity transfers/sales of inventory. in the past, we have transferred intellectual property intra-entity which, under current gaap, resulted in deferring the tax impact on the selling entity. we are still assessing the impact this asu may have on us. the asu will be effective for us on january 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. the modified retrospective approach will be required for transition to the new guidance, with a cumulative-effect adjustment recorded in retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption for intra-entity transfers/sales executed prior to that date. there are no other recently issued accounting pronouncements that we have not yet adopted that are expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 3. business combinations biomet merger we completed our merger with lvb, the parent company of biomet, on june 24, 2015. we paid $12,030.3 million in cash 47 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) and stock and assumed biomet senior notes. the total amount of merger consideration utilized for the acquisition method of accounting, as reduced by the merger consideration paid to holders of unvested lvb stock options and lvb stock-based awards of $90.4 million, was $11,939.9 million. in the three month period ended june 30, 2016, we finalized our valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the biomet merger. the measurement period adjustments in 2016 primarily related to refinements to intangible assets for certain less significant brands, the finalization of tax accounts, including the allocation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill on a jurisdictional basis, and finalizing the estimation of certain contingent liabilities. all other adjustments were not significant. under gaap, measurement period adjustments are recognized on a prospective basis in the period of change, instead of restating prior periods. with respect to intangible asset amortization expense, the adjustments resulted in a decrease of $6.7 million in the year ended december 31, 2016, which related to the year ended december 31, 2015 on a retrospective basis. with respect to inventory fair value, an adjustment was made which decreased cost of products sold, excluding intangible asset amortization, by $4.6 million in the year ended december 31, 2016, which related to the year ended december 31, 2015 on a retrospective basis. through the finalization of tax accounts, we recognized an increase in our provision for income taxes of $52.7 million in the year ended december 31, 2016, which related to the year ended december 31, 2015 on a retrospective basis. the following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the closing date of the biomet merger (in millions): final values cash $ 494.8 accounts receivable, net 527.9 inventory 1,224.1 other current assets 25.4 property, plant and equipment 775.3 intangible assets not subject to amortization: trademarks and trade names 479.0 in-process research and development (ipr&amp;d) 209.0 intangible assets subject to amortization: technology 2,332.1 customer relationships 4,961.0 trademarks and trade names 360.0 other assets 42.6 goodwill 7,433.2 total assets acquired 18,864.4 current liabilities 584.0 long-term debt 2,740.0 deferred taxes 3,497.6 other long-term liabilities 102.9 total liabilities assumed 6,924.5 net assets acquired $ 11,939.9 this table does not reflect $139.9 million of net adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed that were recognized after the measurement period. we have evaluated the effect of these out-of-period adjustments and concluded for both quantitative and qualitative reasons that these adjustments were not material to any of the periods affected. the following table sets forth unaudited pro forma financial information derived from (i) the audited financial statements of zimmer for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014; and (ii) the unaudited financial statements of lvb for the period january 1, 2015 to june 23, 2015 and for the year ended december 31, 2014. the pro forma financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the merger as if it had occurred on january 1, 2014. pro forma financial information (unaudited) year ended december 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) net sales $ 7,517.7 $ 7,965.2 net earnings $ 330.2 $ 320.3 these unaudited pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and include adjustments such as inventory step-up, amortization of acquired intangible assets and interest expense on debt incurred to finance the merger. material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the biomet merger include: the $90.4 million of merger compensation expense for unvested lvb stock options and lvb stock-based awards was removed from net earnings for the year ended december 31, 2015 and recognized as an expense in the year ended december 31, 2014. the $73.0 million of retention plan expense was removed from net earnings for the year ended december 31, 2015 and recognized as an expense in the year ended december 31, 2014. transaction costs of $17.7 million were removed from net earnings for the year ended december 31, 2015 and recognized as an expense in the year ended december 31, 2014. ldr merger on july 13, 2016, we completed our merger with ldr. we paid cash of $1,138.0 million. the total amount of merger consideration utilized for the acquisition method of accounting, as reduced by the merger consideration paid to holders of unvested ldr stock options and ldr stock-based awards of $24.1 million, was $1,113.9 million. the addition of ldr provides us with an immediate position in the growing cervical disc replacement ( cdr ) market. the combination positions us to accelerate the growth of our spine business through the incremental revenues associated with entry into the cdr market and cross-portfolio selling opportunities to both zimmer biomet and ldr 48 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) customer bases. the goodwill is generated from the operational synergies and cross-selling opportunities we expect to achieve from our combined operations. none of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. the purchase price allocation as of december 31, 2016 is preliminary. the primary tasks to be completed related to our purchase price accounting are finalizing tax accounts, including, but not limited to, the allocation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill on a jurisdictional basis. there may be differences between the preliminary estimates of fair value and the final acquisition accounting, which differences could be material. the final estimates of fair value are expected to be completed as soon as possible, but no later than july 13, 2017. the following table summarizes the preliminary estimates of fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the ldr merger (in millions): july 13, 2016 (initial) adjustments july 13, 2016 (as adjusted) cash $ 92.8 $ $ 92.8 accounts receivable, net 31.2 31.2 inventory 86.5 13.1 99.6 other current assets 5.6 5.6 property, plant and equipment 24.7 24.7 intangible assets not subject to amortization: in-process research and development (ipr&amp;d) 2.0 2.0 intangible assets subject to amortization: technology 431.0 21.0 452.0 customer relationships 132.0 (14.0 ) 118.0 trademarks and trade names 77.0 (6.0 ) 71.0 other assets 17.4 59.4 76.8 goodwill 527.1 (44.7 ) 482.4 total assets acquired 1,427.3 28.8 1,456.1 current liabilities 53.3 22.6 75.9 long-term debt 0.5 0.5 deferred taxes 259.1 6.4 265.5 other long-term liabilities 0.5 (0.2 ) 0.3 total liabilities assumed 313.4 28.8 342.2 net assets acquired $ 1,113.9 $ $ 1,113.9 the weighted average amortization period selected for trademarks and trade names, technology and customer relationship intangible assets was 18 years, 18 years and 20 years, respectively. we have not included pro forma information and certain other information under gaap for the ldr merger because it did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. other 2016 acquisitions in 2016, we made a number of individually immaterial acquisitions of companies including cayenne medical, inc. ( cayenne medical ), a sports medicine company, compression therapy concepts, inc. ( ctc ), a provider of non-invasive products for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis, cd diagnostics, inc. ( cd diagnostics ), a medical diagnostic testing company, and medtech sa ( medtech ), a designer and manufacturer of robotic equipment for brain and spine surgeries. the total aggregate cash consideration was $441.7 million. these acquisitions were completed primarily to expand our product offerings. we have assigned a preliminary fair value of $61.6 million for settlement of preexisting relationships and additional payments related to these acquisitions that are contingent on the respective acquired companies product sales, commercial milestones and certain cost savings. the estimated fair value of the aggregate contingent payment liabilities was calculated based on the probability of achieving the specified sales growth, cost savings and commercial milestones and discounting to present value the estimated payments. the goodwill is generated from the operational synergies and cross-selling opportunities we expect to achieve from the technologies acquired. none of the goodwill related to these acquisitions is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. the purchase price allocations as of december 31, 2016 are preliminary. the primary tasks to be completed related to our purchase price accounting are refinements to certain intangible assets, finalizing tax accounts, including, but not limited to, the allocation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill on a jurisdictional basis, and finalizing the estimated 49 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) fair values of contingent liabilities. there may be differences between the preliminary estimates of fair value and the final acquisition accounting. the final estimates of fair value are expected to be completed as soon as possible, but no later than one year after the respective acquisition dates. the following table summarizes the aggregate preliminary estimates of fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to the cayenne medical, ctc, cd diagnostics, medtech, and other immaterial acquisitions that occurred during 2016 (in millions): current assets $ 64.2 property, plant and equipment 3.9 intangible assets 211.3 goodwill 340.0 other assets 7.9 total assets acquired 627.3 current liabilities 13.6 long-term liabilities 110.4 total liabilities assumed 124.0 net assets acquired $ 503.3 the weighted average amortization period selected for the intangible assets is 9.9 years. we have not included pro forma information and certain other information under gaap for these acquisitions because they did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. 4. share-based compensation our share-based payments primarily consist of stock options and restricted stock units ( rsus ). share-based compensation expense was as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 total expense, pre-tax 57.3 46.4 49.4 tax benefit related to awards (31.5 ) (14.5 ) (15.5 ) total expense, net of tax $ 25.8 $ 31.9 $ 33.9 stock options we had two equity compensation plans in effect at december 31, 2016: the 2009 stock incentive plan ( 2009 plan ) and the stock plan for non-employee directors. the 2009 plan succeeded the 2006 stock incentive plan ( 2006 plan ) and the teamshare stock option plan ( teamshare plan ). no further awards have been granted under the 2006 plan or under the teamshare plan since may 2009, and shares remaining available for grant under those plans have been merged into the 2009 plan. vested stock options previously granted under the 2006 plan and the teamshare plan remained outstanding as of december 31, 2016. we have reserved the maximum number of shares of common stock available for award under the terms of each of these plans. we have registered 61.6 million shares of common stock and expect to register an additional 10.0 million shares of common stock under these plans. the 2009 plan provides for the grant of nonqualified stock options and incentive stock options, long-term performance awards in the form of performance shares or units, restricted stock, rsus and stock appreciation rights. the compensation and management development committee of the board of directors determines the grant date for annual grants under our equity compensation plans. the date for annual grants under the 2009 plan to our executive officers is expected to occur in the first quarter of each year following the earnings announcements for the previous quarter and full year. the stock plan for non-employee directors provides for awards of stock options, restricted stock and rsus to non-employee directors. it has been our practice to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options from previously unissued shares, except in limited circumstances where they are issued from treasury stock. the total number of awards which may be granted in a given year and/or over the life of the plan under each of our equity compensation plans is limited. at december 31, 2016, an aggregate of 13.1 million shares were available for future grants and awards under these plans. stock options granted to date under our plans vest over four years and have a maximum contractual life of 10 years. as established under our equity compensation plans, vesting may accelerate upon retirement after the first anniversary date of the award if certain criteria are met. we recognize expense related to stock options on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, less awards expected to be forfeited using estimated forfeiture rates. due to the accelerated retirement provisions, the requisite service period of our stock options range from one to four years. stock options are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of our common stock on the date of grant, except in limited circumstances where local law may dictate otherwise. 50 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) a summary of stock option activity for the year ended december 31, 2016 is as follows (options in thousands): stock options weighted average exercise price weighted average remaining contractual life intrinsic value (in millions) outstanding at january 1, 2016 7,931 $ 78.73 options granted 2,109 105.97 options exercised (1,786 ) 73.37 options forfeited (312 ) 104.58 options expired (41 ) 83.00 outstanding at december 31, 2016 7,901 $ 86.21 6.2 $ 149.6 vested or expected to vest as of december 31, 2016 7,377 $ 84.90 6.0 $ 148.4 exercisable at december 31, 2016 4,316 $ 72.23 4.1 $ 136.6 we use a black-scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of our stock options. expected volatility was derived from a combination of historical volatility and implied volatility because the traded options that were actively traded around the grant date of our stock options did not have maturities of over one year. the expected term of the stock options has been derived from historical employee exercise behavior. the risk-free interest rate was determined using the implied yield currently available for zero-coupon u.s. government issues with a remaining term approximating the expected life of the options. the dividend yield was determined by using an estimated annual dividend and dividing it by the market price of our stock on the grant date. the following table presents information regarding the weighted average fair value of stock options granted, the assumptions used to determine fair value, and the intrinsic value of options exercised in the indicated year: for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 dividend yield 0.9 % 0.8 % 0.9 % volatility 21.9 % 22.2 % 25.2 % risk-free interest rate 1.4 % 1.7 % 1.8 % expected life (years) 5.3 5.3 5.5 weighted average fair value of options granted $ 21.30 $ 22.30 $ 22.59 intrinsic value of options exercised (in millions) $ 73.0 $ 49.4 $ 99.6 as of december 31, 2016, there was $53.0 million of unrecognized share-based payment expense related to nonvested stock options granted under our plans. that expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.9 years. rsus we have awarded rsus to certain of our employees. the terms of the awards have been two to four years. some of the awards have only service conditions while some have performance and market conditions in addition to service conditions. the service condition-only awards vest ratably on the anniversary date of the award. the awards that have performance and market conditions vest all at once on the third anniversary date. future service conditions may be waived if an employee retires after the first anniversary date of the award, but performance and market conditions continue to apply. accordingly, the requisite service period used for share-based payment expense on our rsus range from one to four years. a summary of nonvested rsu activity for the year ended december 31, 2016 is as follows (rsus in thousands): rsus weighted average grant date fair value outstanding at january 1, 2016 1,300 $ 91.64 granted 623 107.90 vested (236 ) 77.79 forfeited (293 ) 88.49 outstanding at december 31, 2016 1,394 102.04 for the rsus with service conditions only, the fair value of the awards was determined based upon the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. for the rsus with market conditions, a monte carlo valuation technique was used to simulate the market conditions of the awards. the outcome of the simulation was used to determine the fair value of the awards. 51 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) we are required to estimate the number of rsus that will vest and recognize share-based payment expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. as of december 31, 2016, we estimate that approximately 1,044,000 outstanding rsus will vest. if our estimate were to change in the future, the cumulative effect of the change in estimate will be recorded in that period. based upon the number of rsus that we expect to vest, the unrecognized share-based payment expense as of december 31, 2016 was $49.4 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. the fair value of rsus vesting during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 based upon our stock price on the date of vesting was $25.5 million, $40.6 million, and $29.3 million, respectively. 5. inventories inventories consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 2015 finished goods $ 1,556.9 $ 1,827.9 work in progress 141.7 146.1 raw materials 260.8 280.1 inventories $ 1,959.4 $ 2,254.1 finished goods inventory as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 includes $35.3 million and $284.4 million, respectively, to step-up acquired inventory to fair value. amounts charged to the consolidated statement of earnings for excess and obsolete inventory in the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $195.4 million, $118.4 million, and $51.8 million, respectively. the increase in the 2016 period primarily resulted from our decision to discontinue certain products. 6. property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 2015 land $ 37.0 $ 39.6 building and equipment 1,789.9 1,789.3 capitalized software costs 397.2 330.1 instruments 2,347.6 2,160.5 construction in progress 99.8 108.4 4,671.5 4,427.9 accumulated depreciation (2,633.6 ) (2,365.3 ) property, plant and equipment, net $ 2,037.9 $ 2,062.6 depreciation expense was $466.7 million, $375.0 million, and $268.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 7. investments information regarding our investments is as follows (in millions): gross unrealized amortized cost gains losses fair value as of december 31, 2015 corporate debt securities $ 245.7 $ 0.1 $ (0.4 ) $ 245.4 u.s. government and agency debt securities 21.6 (0.1 ) 21.5 commercial paper 4.2 4.2 certificates of deposit 2.0 2.0 total short and long-term investments $ 273.5 $ 0.1 $ (0.5 ) $ 273.1 in 2016, we either sold or allowed our investments to mature and did not reinvest the cash. 8. transfers of financial assets in 2016, we executed receivables purchase arrangements to liquidate portions of our accounts receivable balance with unrelated third parties for factoring of specific accounts receivable. the factorings were treated as sales of our accounts receivable in accordance with fasb asc 860, transfers and servicing . proceeds from the transfers reflect either the face value of the account or the face value less factoring fees. interest charged on the transferred account balance and factoring fees are recorded as a charge to interest expense in our consolidated statements of earnings in the period the expenses are incurred. we act as the collection agent on behalf of the third party for portions of the arrangements, but have no significant retained interests or servicing liabilities related to the accounts receivable sold. in order to mitigate credit risk related to portions of our factoring of accounts receivable, we purchased credit insurance for the factored accounts receivable. the result is our risk of loss being limited to the factored accounts receivable not covered by the insurance, which we do not believe to be significant. 52 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) funds received from the transfers are recorded as an increase to cash and a reduction to accounts receivable outstanding in the consolidated balance sheets. we report the cash flows attributable to the sale of receivables to third parties and the cash receipts from collections made on behalf of and paid to third parties as trade accounts receivables in cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. in the year ended december 31, 2016, the company factored approximately $103.1 million of accounts receivable pursuant to the arrangements. for the year ended december 31, 2016, the company incurred minimal expenses related to the factoring. 9. fair value measurements of assets and liabilities the following financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 fair value measurements at reporting date using: description recorded balance quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) assets derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts $ 65.3 $ $ 65.3 $ interest rate swaps 4.0 4.0 $ 69.3 $ $ 69.3 $ liabilities derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts $ 0.3 $ $ 0.3 $ contingent payments related to acquisitions 62.8 62.8 $ 63.1 $ $ 0.3 $ 62.8 as of december 31, 2015 fair value measurements at reporting date using: description recorded balance quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) assets available-for-sale securities corporate debt securities $ 245.4 $ $ 245.4 $ u.s. government and agency debt securities 21.5 21.5 commercial paper 4.2 4.2 certificates of deposit 2.0 2.0 total available-for-sale securities 273.1 273.1 derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts 96.9 96.9 interest rate swaps 26.8 26.8 $ 396.8 $ $ 396.8 $ liabilities derivatives, current and long-term foreign currency forward contracts 1.6 1.6 $ 1.6 $ $ 1.6 $ we value our available-for-sale securities using a market approach based on broker prices for identical assets in over-the-counter markets and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. we value our foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options using a market approach based on foreign currency exchange rates obtained from active markets and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. we value our interest rate swaps using a market approach based on publicly available market yield curves and the terms of our swaps and we perform ongoing assessments of counterparty credit risk. contingent payments related to acquisitions consist of commercial milestone, cost savings and sales-based payments, and are valued using discounted cash flow techniques. the fair value of commercial milestone payments reflects management expectations of probability of payment, and increases as the probability of payment increases or expectation of timing of payments is accelerated. the fair value of cost savings and sales-based payments is based upon probability-weighted future cost savings and revenue estimates, and increases as cost savings and revenue estimates 53 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) increase, probability weighting of higher cost savings and revenue scenarios increase or expectation of timing of payment is accelerated. the majority of these contingent payments are related to acquisitions that have occurred in 2016 for which the acquisition method of accounting is preliminary. therefore, we recognized minimal gains and losses related to these contingent payments in our consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended december 31, 2016. 10. goodwill and other intangible assets the following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill (in millions): americas emea asia pacific immaterial product category operating segments total balance at january 1, 2015 goodwill $ 931.1 $ 1,157.3 $ 148.2 $ 650.6 $ 2,887.2 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) 931.1 1,157.3 148.2 277.6 2,514.2 biomet merger 6,445.2 225.6 408.1 495.0 7,573.9 currency translation (48.3 ) (91.9 ) (7.4 ) (6.3 ) (153.9 ) balance at december 31, 2015 goodwill 7,328.0 1,291.0 548.9 1,139.3 10,307.2 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) 7,328.0 1,291.0 548.9 766.3 9,934.2 biomet purchase accounting adjustments 31.9 (8.0 ) (61.3 ) (8.3 ) (45.7 ) ldr purchase accounting 482.4 482.4 other acquisitions 284.8 34.3 20.9 340.0 currency translation (10.2 ) (53.6 ) (0.3 ) (2.9 ) (67.0 ) balance at december 31, 2016 goodwill 7,634.5 1,263.7 487.3 1,631.4 11,016.9 accumulated impairment losses (373.0 ) (373.0 ) $ 7,634.5 $ 1,263.7 $ 487.3 $ 1,258.4 $ 10,643.9 54 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the components of identifiable intangible assets were as follows (in millions): technology intellectual property rights trademarks and trade names customer relationships ipr&amp;d other total as of december 31, 2016: intangible assets subject to amortization: gross carrying amount $ 3,599.4 $ 181.6 $ 626.1 $ 5,303.5 $ $ 135.7 $ 9,846.3 accumulated amortization (806.8 ) (172.3 ) (80.8 ) (566.0 ) (70.4 ) (1,696.3 ) intangible assets not subject to amortization: gross carrying amount 475.1 160.3 635.4 total identifiable intangible assets $ 2,792.6 $ 9.3 $ 1,020.4 $ 4,737.5 $ 160.3 $ 65.3 $ 8,785.4 as of december 31, 2015: intangible assets subject to amortization: gross carrying amount $ 3,161.6 $ 181.0 $ 583.3 $ 5,133.0 $ $ 101.8 $ 9,160.7 accumulated amortization (591.9 ) (164.8 ) (50.9 ) (269.6 ) (64.8 ) (1,142.0 ) intangible assets not subject to amortization: gross carrying amount 479.0 248.6 727.6 total identifiable intangible assets $ 2,569.7 $ 16.2 $ 1,011.4 $ 4,863.4 $ 248.6 $ 37.0 $ 8,746.3 estimated annual amortization expense based upon intangible assets recognized as of december 31, 2016 for the years ending december 31, 2017 through 2021 is (in millions): for the years ending december 31, 2017 $ 587.4 2018 568.2 2019 554.0 2020 552.3 2021 546.8 11. other current and long-term liabilities other current and long-term liabilities consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 2015 other current liabilities: license and service agreements $ 168.0 $ 144.1 certain claims accrual (note 20) 75.0 50.0 salaries, wages and benefits 225.8 265.9 accrued liabilities 789.1 725.9 total other current liabilities $ 1,257.9 $ 1,185.9 other long-term liabilities: certain claims accrual (note 20) 218.6 264.6 other long-term liabilities 717.7 741.1 total other long-term liabilities $ 936.3 $ 1,005.7 12. debt our debt consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 2015 current portion of long-term debt 1.450% senior notes due 2017 $ 500.0 $ u.s. term loan b 75.0 other short-term debt 0.6 total short-term debt $ 575.6 $ long-term debt 1.450% senior notes due 2017 $ $ 500.0 2.000% senior notes due 2018 1,150.0 1,150.0 4.625% senior notes due 2019 500.0 500.0 2.700% senior notes due 2020 1,500.0 1,500.0 3.375% senior notes due 2021 300.0 300.0 3.150% senior notes due 2022 750.0 750.0 3.550% senior notes due 2025 2,000.0 2,000.0 4.250% senior notes due 2035 253.4 500.0 5.750% senior notes due 2039 317.8 500.0 4.450% senior notes due 2045 395.4 1,250.0 1.414% euro notes due 2022 527.4 2.425% euro notes due 2026 527.4 u.s. term loan a 1,700.0 2,500.0 u.s. term loan b 675.0 japan term loan 99.6 96.8 other long-term debt 4.2 4.6 debt discount and issuance costs (65.8 ) (80.8 ) adjustment related to interest rate swaps 31.4 26.8 total long-term debt $ 10,665.8 $ 11,497.4 55 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) at december 31, 2016, our total debt consisted of $7.67 billion aggregate principal amount of our u.s dollar-denominated senior notes ( senior notes ), $1.7 billion outstanding under a u.s. term loan ( u.s. term loan a ), $750 million outstanding under a u.s. term loan ( u.s. term loan b ), $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of our euro-denominated senior notes ( euro notes ), an 11.7 billion japanese yen term loan agreement ( japan term loan ) that will mature on may 31, 2018, and other debt and fair value adjustments totaling $36.2 million, partially offset by debt discount and issuance costs of $65.8 million. on december 13, 2016, we completed the offering of 500 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.414% euro notes due december 13, 2022 and 500 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.425% euro notes due december 13, 2026. interest is payable on each series of euro notes on december 13 of each year until maturity. we received net proceeds of $1,073.5 million. these proceeds were used to repay the following portions of the merger notes: $246.6 million of the 4.250% senior notes due 2035, $182.2 million of the 5.750% senior notes due 2039, and $854.6 million of the 4.450% senior notes due 2045. as a result, we recorded a loss on the extinguishment of debt in the amount of $53.3 million in our consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended december 31, 2016 in other expense, net. the components of this loss were $66.4 million from portions of the pre-issuance hedge losses related to the senior notes due 2045 and $20.3 million from portions of the original debt issuance costs and debt discount offset by the gain of $33.4 million, calculated as the difference between the net carrying amount of the debt of $1,283.4 million and the reacquisition price of $1,250.0 million. on september 30, 2016, we entered into a revolving credit and term loan agreement (the 2016 credit agreement ) and a first amendment to our credit agreement entered into on may 29, 2014 (the 2014 credit agreement ). the 2016 credit agreement contains the u.s. term loan b, which is a three-year unsecured term loan facility of $750.0 million, and a five-year unsecured multicurrency revolving facility of $1.5 billion (the multicurrency revolving facility ). the multicurrency revolving facility replaced the previous multicurrency revolving facility under the 2014 credit agreement. on september 30, 2016, we borrowed $750.0 million under the u.s. term loan b and utilized those borrowings to repay outstanding borrowings under the previous multicurrency revolving facility incurred in connection with the acquisition of ldr. the previous multicurrency revolving facility was terminated effective september 30, 2016. the 2014 credit agreement also provided for the u.s. term loan a, which is a 5-year unsecured term loan facility in the original principal amount of $3.0 billion, which term loan facility remains in effect. the multicurrency revolving facility will mature on september 30, 2021, with two available one-year extensions at our discretion. borrowings under the multicurrency revolving facility will be used for general corporate purposes. borrowings under the 2014 and 2016 credit agreements bear interest at floating rates based upon indices determined by the currency of the borrowing, or at an alternate base rate, in each case, plus an applicable margin determined by reference to our senior unsecured long-term credit rating, or, in the case of borrowings under the multicurrency revolving facility only, at a fixed rate determined through a competitive bid process. we pay a facility fee on the aggregate amount of the multicurrency revolving facility at a rate determined by reference to our senior unsecured long-term credit rating. the 2016 credit agreement and 2014 credit agreement, as amended, contain customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for unsecured financing arrangements, including, among other things, limitations on consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. financial covenants under the 2016 and 2014 credit agreements include a consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda ratio of no greater than 5.0 to 1.0 through june 30, 2017, and no greater than 4.5 to 1.0 thereafter. if our credit rating falls below investment grade, additional restrictions would result, including restrictions on investments and payment of dividends. we were in compliance with all covenants under the 2016 and 2014 credit agreements as of december 31, 2016. on june 24, 2015, we borrowed $3.0 billion under u.s. term loan a to fund a portion of the biomet merger. under the terms of u.s. term loan a, starting september 30, 2015, principal payments are due as follows: $75.0 million on a quarterly basis during the first three years, $112.5 million on a quarterly basis during the fourth year, and $412.5 million on a quarterly basis during the fifth year. we have paid $1.3 billion in principal under u.s. term loan a, resulting in $1.7 billion in outstanding borrowings as of december 31, 2016. the interest rate at december 31, 2016 was 2.1 percent on term loan a. on september 30, 2016, we borrowed $750.0 million under u.s. term loan b to repay borrowings under the previous multicurrency revolving facility incurred to fund a portion of the ldr merger. under the terms of u.s. term loan b, starting september 30, 2017, principal payments are due as follows: $75.0 million on each of the first two anniversaries of the u.s. term loan b effective date, with the remaining balance due on the u.s. term loan b maturity date of september 30, 2019. borrowings under the multicurrency revolving facility may be used for general corporate purposes. there were no borrowings outstanding under the multicurrency revolving facility as of december 31, 2016. of the total $7.67 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding at december 31, 2016, we issued $6.55 billion of this amount in march 2015 (the merger notes ), the proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the cash consideration payable in the biomet merger, pay merger related fees and expenses and pay a portion of biomet funded debt. the merger notes consist of the following seven tranches: the 1.450% senior notes due 2017, 56 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the 2.000% senior notes due 2018, the 2.700% senior notes due 2020, the 3.150% senior notes due 2022, the 3.550% senior notes due 2025, the 4.250% senior notes due 2035 and the 4.450% senior notes due 2045. we may, at our option, redeem our senior notes, in whole or in part, at any time upon payment of the principal, any applicable make-whole premium, and accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. in addition, the merger notes and the 3.375% senior notes due 2021 may be redeemed at our option without any make-whole premium at specified dates ranging from one month to six months in advance of the scheduled maturity date. between the closing date and june 30, 2015, we repaid the biomet senior notes we assumed in the merger. the fair value of the principal amount plus interest was $2,798.6 million. these senior notes required us to pay a call premium in excess of the fair value of the notes when they were repaid. as a result, we recognized $22.0 million in non-operating other expense in 2015 related to this call premium. the estimated fair value of our senior notes as of december 31, 2016, based on quoted prices for the specific securities from transactions in over-the-counter markets (level 2), was $8,722.5 million. the estimated fair value of the japan term loan as of december 31, 2016, based upon publicly available market yield curves and the terms of the debt (level 2), was $99.2 million. the carrying value of u.s. term loan a and u.s. term loan b approximate fair value as they bear interest at short-term variable market rates. we have entered into interest rate swap agreements which we designated as fair value hedges of underlying fixed-rate obligations on our senior notes due 2019 and 2021. in august 2016, we settled these instruments for $36.9 million. in september 2016, we entered into various variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements that were accounted for as cash flow hedges of term loan b. see note 14 for additional information regarding the interest rate swap agreements. we also have available uncommitted credit facilities totaling $47.1 million. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, the weighted average interest rate for our long-term borrowings was 2.8 percent and 2.9 percent, respectively. we paid $363.1 million, $207.1 million, and $67.5 million in interest during 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 13. accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income oci refers to certain gains and losses that under gaap are included in comprehensive income but are excluded from net earnings as these amounts are initially recorded as an adjustment to stockholders equity. amounts in oci may be reclassified to net earnings upon the occurrence of certain events. our oci is comprised of foreign currency translation adjustments, unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, and amortization of prior service costs and unrecognized gains and losses in actuarial assumptions on our defined benefit plans. foreign currency translation adjustments are reclassified to net earnings upon sale or upon a complete or substantially complete liquidation of an investment in a foreign entity. unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges are reclassified to net earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are reclassified to net earnings if we sell the security before maturity or if the unrealized loss is considered to be other-than-temporary. amounts related to defined benefit plans that are in oci are reclassified over the service periods of employees in the plan. the reclassification amounts are allocated to all employees in the plans and, therefore, the reclassified amounts may become part of inventory to the extent they are considered direct labor costs. see note 15 for more information on our defined benefit plans. the following table shows the changes in the components of oci, net of tax (in millions): foreign currency translation cash flow hedges unrealized gains (losses) on securities defined benefit plan items balance december 31, 2015 $ (193.4 ) $ 29.8 $ (0.6 ) $ (164.8 ) oci before reclassifications (130.0 ) 28.3 0.5 12.1 reclassifications (25.8 ) 9.9 balance december 31, 2016 $ (323.4 ) $ 32.3 $ (0.1 ) $ (142.8 ) 57 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table shows the reclassification adjustments from oci (in millions): amount of gain / (loss) reclassified from oci location on statement of earnings for the years ended december 31, component of oci 2016 2015 2014 cash flow hedges foreign exchange forward contracts $ 87.7 $ 122.3 $ 33.3 cost of products sold forward starting interest rate swaps (66.4 ) other expense forward starting interest rate swaps (1.7 ) (1.3 ) interest expense 19.6 121.0 33.3 total before tax (6.2 ) 28.0 14.4 provision for income taxes $ 25.8 $ 93.0 $ 18.9 net of tax investments realized gains on securities $ $ $ 0.4 interest income 0.4 total before tax provision for income taxes $ $ $ 0.4 net of tax defined benefit plans prior service cost $ 7.8 $ 5.6 $ 3.9 * unrecognized actuarial (loss) (22.9 ) (20.1 ) (11.1 ) * (15.1 ) (14.5 ) (7.2 ) total before tax (5.2 ) (5.3 ) (3.0 ) provision for income taxes $ (9.9 ) $ (9.2 ) $ (4.2 ) net of tax total reclassifications $ 15.9 $ 83.8 $ 15.1 net of tax * these oci components are included in the computation of net periodic pension expense (see note 15). the following table shows the tax effects on each component of oci recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) (in millions): for the years ended december 31, before tax tax net of tax 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 foreign currency cumulative translation adjustments $ (128.2 ) $ (305.2 ) $ (223.1 ) $ 1.8 $ $ $ (130.0 ) $ (305.2 ) $ (223.1 ) unrealized cash flow hedge gains 29.7 59.1 60.5 1.4 6.4 4.6 28.3 52.7 55.9 reclassification adjustments on foreign currency hedges (19.6 ) (121.0 ) (33.3 ) 6.2 (28.0 ) (14.4 ) (25.8 ) (93.0 ) (18.9 ) reclassification adjustments on securities (0.4 ) (0.4 ) unrealized gains/(losses) on securities 0.5 (0.2 ) (0.5 ) 0.5 (0.2 ) (0.5 ) adjustments to prior service cost and unrecognized actuarial assumptions 27.3 (25.0 ) (104.8 ) 5.3 (3.6 ) (29.0 ) 22.0 (21.4 ) (75.8 ) total other comprehensive (loss) income $ (90.3 ) $ (392.3 ) $ (301.6 ) $ 14.7 $ (25.2 ) $ (38.8 ) $ (105.0 ) $ (367.1 ) $ (262.8 ) 14. derivative instruments and hedging activities we are exposed to certain market risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including foreign currency exchange rate risk, commodity price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities. currently, the only risks that we manage through the use of derivative instruments are interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. interest rate risk derivatives designated as fair value hedges in prior years, we entered into various fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements that were accounted for as fair value hedges of a portion of the senior notes due 2019 and all of the senior notes due 2021. in august 2016, we received cash for these interest rate swap assets by terminating the hedging instruments with the counterparties. the asset value, including accrued interest through the date of termination, was $36.9 million and the amount being amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining terms of the hedged debt instruments was $34.3 million, of which the unamortized balance as of december 31, 2016 was $31.4 million. 58 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in 2014, we entered into forward starting interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges of the thirty year tranche of senior notes (the 4.450% senior notes due 2045) we expected to issue in 2015. the forward starting interest rate swaps mitigated the risk of changes in interest rates prior to the completion of the merger notes offering. the total notional amounts of the forward starting interest rate swaps were $1 billion and settled in march 2015 at a loss of $97.6 million. this loss will be recognized using the effective interest rate method over the maturity period of the 4.450% senior notes due 2045. with the issuance of the euro notes, we extinguished a portion of the 4.450% senior notes due 2045 and recognized $66.4 million as part of our debt extinguishment loss. the remaining loss to be recognized at december 31, 2016 was $28.2 million. in september 2016, we entered into various variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $375 million that were accounted for as cash flow hedges of term loan b. the interest rate swaps minimize the exposure to changes in the libor interest rates while the variable-rate debt is outstanding. the weighted average fixed interest rate for all of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements is approximately 0.82 percent through september 30, 2019. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. to reduce the potential effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements on net earnings, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. we also designated our euro notes and other foreign currency exchange forward contracts as net investment hedges of investments in foreign subsidiaries. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. derivatives designated as net investment hedges we are exposed to the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the investments in our wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in order to mitigate the volatility in foreign exchange rates, we issued euro notes in december 2016, as discussed in note 12, and designated 100 percent of the euro notes to hedge our net investment in certain wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries that have a functional currency of euro. all changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument designated as a net investment hedge are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the consolidated balance sheet. we also entered into a foreign currency exchange forward contract in anticipation of the euro notes issuance and designated it as a net investment hedge. in the year ended december 31, 2016, we recognized a foreign exchange gain of $18.8 million in oci on our net investment hedges. we recognized no ineffectiveness from our net investment hedges for the year ended december 31, 2016. derivatives designated as cash flow hedges our revenues are generated in various currencies throughout the world. however, a significant amount of our inventory is produced in u.s. dollars. therefore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates may have different proportional effects on our revenues compared to our cost of products sold. to minimize the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements on cash flows, we hedge intercompany sales of inventory expected to occur within the next 30 months with foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options. we designate these derivative instruments as cash flow hedges. we perform quarterly assessments of hedge effectiveness by verifying and documenting the critical terms of the hedge instrument and that forecasted transactions have not changed significantly. we also assess on a quarterly basis whether there have been adverse developments regarding the risk of a counterparty default. for derivatives which qualify as hedges of future cash flows, the effective portion of changes in fair value is temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income and then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value, if any, is immediately reported in cost of products sold. on our consolidated statement of cash flows, the settlements of these cash flow hedges are recognized in operating cash flows. for foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options outstanding at december 31, 2016, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone and obligations to purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars. these derivatives mature at dates ranging from january 2017 through june 2019. as of december 31, 2016, the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts and options entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars were $1,512.6 million. as of december 31, 2016, the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts and options entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs were $315.7 million. 59 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) derivatives not designated as hedging instruments we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. as a result, any foreign currency re-measurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. these contracts are settled on the last day of each reporting period. therefore, there is no outstanding balance related to these contracts recorded on the balance sheet as of the end of the reporting period. the notional amounts of these contracts are typically in a range of $1.75 billion to $2.25 billion per quarter. income statement presentation derivatives designated as fair value hedges derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges had the following effects on our consolidated statements of earnings (in millions): gain / (loss) on instrument gain / (loss) on hedged item derivative instrument location on statement of earnings year ended december 31, year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 interest rate swaps interest expense $ 7.5 $ 2.8 $ 14.7 $ (7.5 ) $ (2.8 ) $ (14.7 ) we had no ineffective fair value hedging instruments nor any amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. derivatives designated as cash flow hedges derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges had the following effects, before taxes, on oci and net earnings on our consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated statements of comprehensive income and consolidated balance sheets (in millions): amount of gain / (loss) recognized in oci amount of gain / (loss) reclassified from oci year ended december 31, year ended december 31, derivative instrument 2016 2015 2014 location on statement of earnings 2016 2015 2014 foreign exchange forward contracts $ 25.7 $ 97.4 $ 119.8 cost of products sold $ 87.7 $ 122.3 $ 33.3 interest rate swaps 4.0 interest expense forward starting interest rate swaps (38.3 ) (59.3 ) interest expense (1.7 ) (1.3 ) forward starting interest rate swaps other expense, net (66.4 ) $ 29.7 $ 59.1 $ 60.5 $ 19.6 $ 121.0 $ 33.3 the net amount recognized in earnings during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 due to ineffectiveness and amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were not significant. the fair value of outstanding derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges and recorded on the balance sheet at december 31, 2016, together with settled derivatives where the hedged item has not yet affected earnings, was a net unrealized gain of $32.2 million, or $28.2 million after taxes, which is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income. of the net unrealized gain, $34.4 million, or $28.0 million after taxes, is expected to be reclassified to earnings in cost of products sold and a loss of $0.5 million, or $0.3 million after taxes, is expected to be reclassified to earnings in interest expense over the next twelve months. derivatives not designated as hedging instruments the following gains from these derivative instruments were recognized on our consolidated statements of earnings (in millions): derivative instrument location on year ended december 31, statement of earnings 2016 2015 2014 foreign exchange forward contracts other expense, net $ 2.5 $ 28.8 $ 15.3 this impact does not include any offsetting gains/losses recognized in earnings as a result of foreign currency remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency. 60 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) balance sheet presentation as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, all derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet. on our consolidated balance sheets, we recognize individual forward contracts and options with the same counterparty on a net asset/liability basis if we have a master netting agreement with the counterparty. under these master netting agreements, we are able to settle derivative instrument assets and liabilities with the same counterparty in a single transaction, instead of settling each derivative instrument separately. we have master netting agreements with all of our counterparties. the fair value of derivative instruments on a gross basis is as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 as of december 31, 2015 balance sheet location fair value balance sheet location fair value asset derivatives foreign exchange forward contracts other current assets $ 57.9 other current assets $ 100.5 foreign exchange forward contracts other assets 34.9 other assets 19.8 interest rate swaps other assets 4.0 other assets 26.8 total asset derivatives $ 96.8 $ 147.1 liability derivatives foreign exchange forward contracts other current liabilities $ 20.9 other current liabilities $ 16.7 forward starting interest rate swaps other current liabilities other current liabilities foreign exchange forward contracts other long-term liabilities 6.9 other long-term liabilities 8.3 total liability derivatives $ 27.8 $ 25.0 the table below presents the effects of our master netting agreements on our consolidated balance sheets (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 as of december 31, 2015 description location gross amount offset net amount in balance sheet gross amount offset net amount in balance sheet asset derivatives cash flow hedges other current assets $ 57.9 $ 20.6 $ 37.3 $ 100.5 $ 16.3 $ 84.2 cash flow hedges other assets 34.9 6.8 28.1 19.8 7.1 12.7 liability derivatives cash flow hedges other current liabilities 20.9 20.6 0.3 16.7 16.3 0.4 cash flow hedges other long-term liabilities 6.9 6.8 0.1 8.3 7.1 1.2 the following net investment hedge gains were recognized on our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions): amount of gain / (loss) recognized in oci year ended december 31, derivative instrument 2016 2015 2014 euro notes $ 9.4 $ $ foreign exchange forward contracts 9.4 $ 18.8 $ $ 15. retirement benefit plans we have defined benefit pension plans covering certain u.s. and puerto rico employees. the employees who are not participating in the defined benefit plans receive additional benefits under our defined contribution plans. plan benefits are primarily based on years of credited service and the participant average eligible compensation. in addition to the u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit pension plans, we sponsor various foreign pension arrangements, including retirement and termination benefit plans required by local law or coordinated with government sponsored plans. we use a december 31 measurement date for our benefit plans. 61 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) defined benefit plans the components of net pension expense for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 service cost $ 9.6 $ 11.8 $ 10.9 $ 19.0 $ 18.9 $ 14.7 interest cost 13.8 15.8 15.5 10.0 8.8 9.2 expected return on plan assets (32.2 ) (31.8 ) (30.8 ) (13.7 ) (13.9 ) (11.0 ) curtailment gain (0.5 ) settlements 2.6 amortization of prior service cost (5.9 ) (3.7 ) (2.6 ) (1.9 ) (1.9 ) (1.3 ) amortization of unrecognized actuarial loss 16.5 17.4 10.6 6.4 2.7 0.5 net periodic benefit cost $ 4.4 $ 9.5 $ 3.6 $ 19.3 $ 14.6 $ 12.1 the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine net pension expense for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows: for the years ended december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 discount rate 4.32% 4.56% 4.98% 1.41% 1.94% 2.46% rate of compensation increase 3.29% 3.29% 3.29% 2.08% 2.00% 1.48% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.75% 7.75% 7.75% 2.40% 3.05% 2.88% the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on the historical and estimated future rates of return on the different asset classes held in the plans. the expected long-term rate of return is the weighted average of the target asset allocation of each individual asset class. we believe that historical asset results approximate expected market returns applicable to the funding of a long-term benefit obligation. discount rates were determined for each of our defined benefit retirement plans at their measurement date to reflect the yield of a portfolio of high quality bonds matched against the timing and amounts of projected future benefit payments. beginning in 2016, we changed the method used to estimate the service and interest costs for pension and postretirement benefits. the new method utilizes a full yield curve approach to estimate service and interest costs by applying specific spot rates along the yield curve used to determine the benefit obligation of relevant projected cash outflows. historically, we utilized a single weighted-average discount rate applied to projected cash outflows. we made the change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by aligning the timing of the plan liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rate on the yield curve. the change did not impact the measurement of the plan obligations. we accounted for this change as a change in accounting estimate. 62 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) changes in projected benefit obligations and plan assets were (in millions): for the years ended december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2016 2015 projected benefit obligation beginning of year $ 375.1 $ 386.6 $ 568.6 $ 423.7 obligation assumed from biomet 159.4 service cost 9.6 11.8 19.0 18.9 interest cost 13.8 15.8 10.0 8.8 plan amendments (21.9 ) (23.4 ) employee contributions 23.6 16.9 benefits paid (14.3 ) (12.3 ) (31.6 ) (24.1 ) actuarial (gain) loss (1.6 ) (4.9 ) 46.7 (18.9 ) expenses paid (0.2 ) (0.3 ) settlement (5.7 ) (0.2 ) translation gain (44.1 ) (15.6 ) projected benefit obligation end of year $ 376.9 $ 375.1 $ 568.6 $ 568.6 for the years ended december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2016 2015 plan assets at fair market value beginning of year $ 374.1 $ 402.2 $ 505.6 $ 385.4 assets contributed by biomet 129.4 actual return on plan assets 29.5 (16.6 ) 34.1 (4.0 ) employer contributions 5.8 0.8 15.9 14.8 employee contributions 23.6 16.9 settlements (5.7 ) plan amendments (0.2 ) benefits paid (14.3 ) (12.3 ) (31.6 ) (24.1 ) expenses paid (0.2 ) (0.3 ) translation loss (40.4 ) (12.3 ) plan assets at fair market value end of year $ 389.4 $ 374.1 $ 507.0 $ 505.6 funded status $ 12.5 $ (1.0 ) $ (61.6 ) $ (63.0 ) for the years ended december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2016 2015 amounts recognized in consolidated balance sheet: prepaid pension $ 24.0 $ 14.6 $ 10.2 $ 16.5 short-term accrued benefit liability (0.4 ) (1.0 ) (0.7 ) (0.6 ) long-term accrued benefit liability (11.1 ) (14.6 ) (71.1 ) (78.9 ) net amount recognized $ 12.5 $ (1.0 ) $ (61.6 ) $ (63.0 ) 63 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) we estimate the following amounts recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income will be recognized as part of our net pension expense during 2017 (in millions): u.s. and puerto rico foreign unrecognized prior service cost $ (5.9 ) $ (4.2 ) unrecognized actuarial loss 16.4 3.8 $ 10.5 $ (0.4 ) the weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit retirement plans were as follows: for the years ended december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 discount rate 4.32 % 4.36 % 4.10 % 1.41 % 1.86 % 1.38 % rate of compensation increase 3.29 % 3.29 % 3.29 % 2.08 % 2.02 % 1.43 % plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows (in millions): as of december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2016 2015 projected benefit obligation $ 51.3 $ 53.8 $ 545.7 $ 393.4 plan assets at fair market value 39.8 38.2 480.2 319.6 total accumulated benefit obligations and plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were as follows (in millions): as of december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2016 2015 2016 2015 total accumulated benefit obligations $ 364.8 $ 354.6 $ 556.4 $ 556.8 plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets: accumulated benefit obligation 32.0 34.8 530.1 380.1 plan assets at fair market value 21.8 20.6 475.3 314.9 the benefits expected to be paid out in each of the next five years and for the five years combined thereafter are as follows (in millions): for the years ending december 31, u.s. and puerto rico foreign 2017 $ 15.7 $ 23.3 2018 16.3 23.2 2019 17.5 23.6 2020 18.3 24.0 2021 19.0 23.9 2022-2026 104.9 128.3 the u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit retirement plans overall investment strategy is to maximize total returns by emphasizing long-term growth of capital while mitigating risk. we have established target ranges of assets held by the plans of 40 to 45 percent for equity securities, 30 to 35 percent for debt securities and 20 to 25 percent in non-traditional investments. the plans strive to have sufficiently diversified assets so that adverse or unexpected results from one asset class will not have an unduly detrimental impact on the entire portfolio. we regularly review the investments in the plans and we may rebalance them from time-to-time based upon the target asset allocation of the plans. for the u.s. and puerto rico plans, we maintain an investment policy statement that guides the investment allocation in the plans. the investment policy statement describes the target asset allocation positions described above. our benefits committee, along with our investment advisor, monitor compliance with and administer the investment policy statement and the plans assets and oversee the general investment strategy and objectives of the plans. our benefits committee generally meets quarterly to review performance 64 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) and to ensure that the current investment allocation is within the parameters of the investment policy statement. the investment strategies of foreign based plans vary according to the plan provisions and local laws. the majority of the assets in foreign based plans are located in switzerland-based plans. these assets are held in trusts and are commingled with the assets of other swiss companies with representatives of all the companies making the investment decisions. the overall strategy is to maximize total returns while avoiding risk. the trustees of the assets have established target ranges of assets held by the plans of 30 to 50 percent in debt securities, 20 to 37 percent in equity securities, 15 to 24 percent in real estate, 3 to 15 percent in cash funds and 0 to 12 percent in other funds. the fair value of our u.s. and puerto rico pension plan assets by asset category was as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 2.7 $ 2.7 $ $ equity securities: u.s. large-cap 87.4 87.4 u.s. small-cap 34.4 34.4 international 111.1 111.1 real estate 14.4 14.4 commodity-linked mutual funds intermediate fixed income securities 139.4 139.4 total $ 389.4 $ 2.7 $ 386.7 $ as of december 31, 2015 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 2.5 $ 2.5 $ $ equity securities: u.s. large-cap 79.2 79.2 u.s. small-cap 25.6 25.6 international 93.2 93.2 real estate 27.0 27.0 commodity-linked mutual funds 16.4 16.4 intermediate fixed income securities 130.2 130.2 total $ 374.1 $ 2.5 $ 371.6 $ the fair value of our foreign pension plan assets was as follows (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 37.8 $ 37.8 $ $ equity securities: energy 3.2 3.2 materials 8.6 8.6 industrials 9.3 9.3 consumer discretionary 5.8 5.8 consumer staples 8.4 8.4 healthcare 10.3 10.3 financials 16.8 16.8 information technology 5.2 5.2 telecommunication services 2.1 2.1 utilities 3.3 3.3 other 71.7 68.3 3.4 fixed income securities: government bonds 113.9 113.9 corporate bonds 68.2 68.2 asset-backed securities 9.9 9.9 other debt 11.1 11.1 other types of investments: mortgage loans 10.8 10.8 insurance contracts 5.8 5.8 other investments 16.9 16.9 real estate 87.9 9.2 78.7 total $ 507.0 $ 179.1 $ 249.2 $ 78.7 65 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) as of december 31, 2015 fair value measurements at reporting date using: asset category total quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (level 1) significant other observable inputs (level 2) significant unobservable inputs (level 3) cash and cash equivalents $ 34.0 $ 34.0 $ $ equity securities: energy 4.7 4.7 materials 6.7 6.7 industrials 8.2 8.2 consumer discretionary 6.3 6.3 consumer staples 8.5 8.5 healthcare 8.6 8.6 financials 17.4 17.4 information technology 5.7 5.7 telecommunication services 2.0 2.0 utilities 3.3 3.3 other 80.7 40.6 40.1 fixed income securities: government bonds 104.0 104.0 corporate bonds 74.5 74.5 asset-backed securities 14.8 14.8 other debt 11.3 11.3 other types of investments: mortgage loans 9.8 9.8 insurance contracts 5.8 5.8 other investments 14.7 14.7 real estate 84.6 10.7 73.9 total $ 505.6 $ 146.0 $ 285.7 $ 73.9 as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, our defined benefit pension plans assets did not hold any direct investment in zimmer biomet holdings common stock. equity securities are valued using a market approach, based on quoted prices for the specific security from transactions in active exchange markets (level 1), or in some cases where we are invested in mutual or collective funds, based upon the net asset value per unit of the fund which is determined from quoted market prices of the underlying securities in the fund portfolio (level 2). fixed income securities are valued using a market approach, based upon quoted prices for the specific security or from institutional bid evaluations. real estate is valued by discounting to present value the cash flows expected to be generated by the specific properties. the following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of our foreign pension plan assets measured at fair value that used significant unobservable inputs (level 3) (in millions): december 31, 2016 beginning balance $ 73.9 gains on assets sold 0.1 change in fair value of assets 2.7 net purchases and sales 5.0 translation loss (3.0 ) ending balance $ 78.7 we expect that we will have no legally required minimum funding requirements in 2017 for the qualified u.s. and puerto rico defined benefit retirement plans, nor do we expect to voluntarily contribute to these plans during 2017. contributions to foreign defined benefit plans are estimated to be $14.9 million in 2017. we do not expect the assets in any of our plans to be returned to us in the next year. defined contribution plans we also sponsor defined contribution plans for substantially all of the u.s. and puerto rico employees and certain employees in other countries. the benefits offered under these plans are reflective of local customs and practices in the countries concerned. we expensed $42.5 million, $40.2 million and $32.8 million related to these plans for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 16. income taxes the components of earnings before income taxes consisted of the following (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 united states operations $ (251.8 ) $ (246.2 ) $ 403.3 foreign operations 651.4 399.4 536.1 total $ 399.6 $ 153.2 $ 939.4 the provision for income taxes and the income taxes paid consisted of the following (in millions): current: federal $ 134.2 $ 55.8 $ 178.2 state 12.4 18.9 16.5 foreign 101.6 96.3 116.0 248.2 171.0 310.7 deferred: federal (108.5 ) (120.6 ) (54.8 ) state 2.3 (20.0 ) (6.6 ) foreign (47.0 ) (23.4 ) (29.1 ) (153.2 ) (164.0 ) (90.5 ) provision for income taxes $ 95.0 $ 7.0 $ 220.2 income taxes paid $ 269.6 $ 193.6 $ 340.1 66 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) a reconciliation of the u.s. statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate is as follows: for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 u.s. statutory income tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % state taxes, net of federal deduction 2.0 (1.7 ) 0.8 tax impact of foreign operations, including foreign tax credits (11.0 ) (62.3 ) (14.2 ) change in valuation allowance (3.7 ) non-deductible expenses 0.9 2.4 tax impact of certain significant transactions 1.6 21.6 1.4 tax benefit relating to u.s. manufacturer deduction and export sales (4.7 ) (6.2 ) (1.9 ) r&amp;d credit (1.9 ) (4.2 ) (0.2 ) share based compensation (2.9 ) 1.1 0.2 net uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties 4.2 22.9 2.2 other 0.6 (0.3 ) 0.1 effective income tax rate 23.8 % 4.6 % 23.4 % our operations in puerto rico and switzerland benefit from various tax incentive grants. these grants expire between fiscal years 2019 and 2029. deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred income tax assets when it is more likely than not that an income tax benefit will not be realized. the components of deferred taxes consisted of the following (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 2015 deferred tax assets: inventory $ 260.3 $ 159.7 net operating loss carryover 181.3 117.4 tax credit carryover 110.4 207.8 capital loss carryover 2.3 4.2 accrued liabilities 182.2 190.2 share-based compensation 60.3 59.0 accounts receivable 22.3 23.7 other 101.9 133.6 total deferred tax assets 921.0 895.6 less: valuation allowances (88.3 ) (72.7 ) total deferred tax assets after valuation allowances 832.7 822.9 deferred tax liabilities: fixed assets $ 138.7 $ 144.6 intangible assets 2,343.7 2,337.2 unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries 1,159.4 1,374.8 other 4.3 total deferred tax liabilities 3,641.8 3,860.9 total net deferred income taxes $ (2,809.1 ) $ (3,038.0 ) net operating loss carryovers are available to reduce future federal, state and foreign taxable earnings. at december 31, 2016, $157.1 million of these net operating loss carryovers generally expire within a period of 1 to 20 years and $24.2 million of these net operating loss carryovers have an indefinite life. valuation allowances for net operating loss carryovers have been established in the amount of $70.8 million and $47.0 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. deferred tax assets related to tax credit carryovers are available to offset future federal, state and foreign tax liabilities. at december 31, 2016, the company total tax credit carryovers of $110.4 million generally expire within a period of 1 to 10 years. valuation allowances for certain tax credit carryovers have been established in the amount of $11.9 million and $14.4 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. deferred tax assets related to capital loss carryovers are also available to reduce future federal capital gains. at december 31, 2016, the company capital loss carryovers of $2.3 million generally expire within a period of 2 to 4 years. valuation allowances for certain capital loss carryovers have been established in the amount of $0.2 million and $4.2 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. the remaining valuation allowances booked against deferred tax assets of $5.4 million and $7.1 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015, 67 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) respectively, relate primarily to intangible assets and potential capital losses that management believes, more likely than not, will not be realized. at december 31, 2016, we had an aggregate of approximately $4,677.0 million of unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have been, or are intended to be, indefinitely reinvested for continued use in foreign operations. if the total undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries were remitted, a portion of the additional tax would be offset by the allowable foreign tax credits. it is not practical for us to determine the additional tax related to remitting these earnings. the following is a tabular reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 balance at january 1 $ 591.9 $ 321.7 $ 311.0 increases related to business combinations* 70.2 247.6 increases related to prior periods 36.7 1.3 0.9 decreases related to prior periods (94.7 ) (3.8 ) increases related to current period 53.0 25.7 18.3 decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities (3.2 ) (1.4 ) (3.0 ) decreases related to lapse of statute of limitations (4.6 ) (3.0 ) (1.7 ) balance at december 31 $ 649.3 $ 591.9 $ 321.7 amounts impacting effective tax rate, if recognized balance at december 31* $ 511.5 $ 443.7 $ 186.3 * subject to change during measurement period of business combinations. we recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. during 2016, we accrued interest and penalties of $19.3 million, and as of december 31, 2016, had a recognized liability for interest and penalties of $110.8 million, which included a $8.6 million increase from december 31, 2015 related to the biomet merger. during 2015, we accrued interest and penalties of $4.8 million, and as of december 31, 2015, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $82.9 million, which included an increase of $29.8 million from december 31, 2014 related to the biomet merger. during 2014, we accrued interest and penalties of $5.9 million, and as of december 31, 2014, had recognized a liability for interest and penalties of $48.3 million. we operate on a global basis and are subject to numerous and complex tax laws and regulations. additionally, tax laws have and continue to undergo rapid changes in both application and interpretation by various countries, including state aid interpretations and the organization for economic cooperation and development led initiatives. our income tax filings are subject to examinations by taxing authorities throughout the world. income tax audits may require an extended period of time to reach resolution and may result in significant income tax adjustments when interpretation of tax laws or allocation of company profits is disputed. our u.s. federal income tax returns have been audited through 2009 and are currently under audit for years 2010-2014. the irs has proposed adjustments for years 2005-2009, reallocating profits between certain of our u.s. and foreign subsidiaries. we have disputed these adjustments and intend to continue to vigorously defend our positions. for years 2005-2007, we have filed a petition with the u.s. tax court. for years 2008-2009, we are pursuing resolution through the irs administrative appeals process. the u.s. federal income tax returns of the acquired biomet consolidated group have been audited through fiscal year 2008. state income tax returns are generally subject to examination for a period of 3 to 5 years after filing of the respective return. the state impact of any federal changes generally remains subject to examination by various states for a period of up to one year after formal notification to the states. we have various state income tax return positions in the process of examination, administrative appeals or litigation. in other major jurisdictions, open years are generally 2009 or later. although ultimate timing is uncertain, the net amount of tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits may change within the next twelve months due to changes in audit status, expiration of statutes of limitations, settlements of tax assessments and other events. management best estimate of such change is within the range of $300 million decrease to $50 million increase. 68 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 17. capital stock and earnings per share we are authorized to issue 250.0 million shares of preferred stock, none of which were issued or outstanding as of december 31, 2016. the numerator for both basic and diluted earnings per share is net earnings available to common stockholders. the denominator for basic earnings per share is the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. the denominator for diluted earnings per share is weighted average shares outstanding adjusted for the effect of dilutive stock options and other equity awards. the following is a reconciliation of weighted average shares for the basic and diluted share computations (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 weighted average shares outstanding for basic net earnings per share 200.0 187.4 169.0 effect of dilutive stock options and other equity awards 2.4 2.4 2.7 weighted average shares outstanding for diluted net earnings per share 202.4 189.8 171.7 for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, an average of 0.9 million and 0.5 million options, respectively, to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as the exercise prices of these options were greater than the average market price of the common stock. in the year ended december 31, 2014, all outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock were included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as the exercise prices of all options were less than the average market price of the common stock. during 2016, we repurchased 4.2 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $98.50 per share for a total cash outlay of $415.5 million, including commissions. 18. segment data we design, manufacture and market orthopaedic reconstructive products; sports medicine, biologics, extremities and trauma products; office based technologies; spine, craniomaxillofacial and thoracic products ( cmf ); dental implants; and related surgical products. we allocate resources to achieve our operating profit goals through seven operating segments. our operating segments are comprised of both geographic and product category business units. the geographic operating segments are the americas, which is comprised principally of the u.s. and includes other north, central and south american markets; emea, which is comprised principally of europe and includes the middle east and african markets; and asia pacific, which is comprised primarily of japan and includes other asian and pacific markets. the product category operating segments are americas spine, office based technologies, cmf and dental. the geographic operating segments include results from all of our product categories except those in the product category operating segments. the office based technologies, cmf and dental product category operating segments reflect those respective product category results from all regions, whereas the americas spine operating segment only includes product results from the americas. as it relates to the geographic operating segments, management evaluates performance based upon segment operating profit exclusive of operating expenses pertaining to inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges, certain claims, goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortization, special items, and global operations and corporate functions. global operations and corporate functions include research, development engineering, medical education, brand management, corporate legal, finance and human resource functions, manufacturing operations and logistics and share-based payment expense. as it relates to each product category operating segment, research, development engineering, medical education, brand management and other various costs that are specific to the product category operating segment operations are reflected in its operating profit results. due to these additional costs included in the product category operating segments, profitability metrics between the geographic operating segments and product category operating segments are not comparable. intercompany transactions have been eliminated from segment operating profit. management does not review asset information by operating segment. instead, management reviews cash flow and other financial ratios by operating segment. these seven operating segments are the basis for our reportable segment information provided below. the four product category operating segments are individually insignificant to our consolidated results and therefore do not constitute a reporting segment either individually or combined. for presentation purposes, these product category operating segments have been aggregated. prior period reportable segment financial information has been restated to conform to the current period. 69 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) net sales and other information by segment is as follows (in millions): americas emea asia pacific immaterial product category operating segments global operations and corporate functions total as of and for the year ended december 31, 2016 net sales $ 3,947.6 $ 1,566.1 $ 1,092.2 $ 1,078.0 $ $ 7,683.9 depreciation and amortization 135.6 70.7 51.6 34.7 746.7 1,039.3 segment operating profit 2,134.4 503.3 440.8 249.1 (854.9 ) 2,472.7 inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges (469.1 ) intangible asset amortization (565.9 ) certain claims special items biomet merger related (487.3 ) other special items (124.5 ) operating profit 825.9 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2015 net sales $ 3,109.4 $ 1,302.9 $ 881.6 $ 703.9 $ $ 5,997.8 depreciation and amortization 110.0 62.4 37.9 21.0 481.1 712.4 segment operating profit 1,633.5 449.0 422.2 162.2 (673.9 ) 1,993.0 inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges (348.8 ) intangible asset amortization (337.4 ) certain claims (7.7 ) special items biomet merger related (619.1 ) other special items (212.7 ) operating profit 467.3 as of and for the year ended december 31, 2014 net sales $ 2,320.2 $ 1,189.1 $ 789.2 $ 374.8 $ $ 4,673.3 depreciation and amortization 70.5 48.8 30.2 7.5 218.8 375.8 segment operating profit 1,215.4 407.8 371.0 76.4 (541.9 ) 1,528.7 inventory step-up and certain other inventory and manufacturing related charges (36.3 ) intangible asset amortization (92.5 ) certain claims (21.5 ) special items biomet merger related (61.9 ) other special items (279.2 ) operating profit 1,037.3 70 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) we conduct business in the following countries that hold 10 percent or more of our total consolidated property, plant and equipment, net (in millions): as of december 31, 2016 2015 united states $ 1,181.3 $ 1,188.6 other countries 856.6 874.0 property, plant and equipment, net $ 2,037.9 $ 2,062.6 u.s. sales were $4,541.3 million, $3,447.2 million, and $2,397.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. sales within any other individual country were less than 10 percent of our consolidated sales in each of those years. sales are attributable to a country based upon the customer country of domicile. net sales by product category are as follows (in millions): for the years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 knees $ 2,751.9 $ 2,276.8 $ 1,895.2 hips 1,867.9 1,533.0 1,326.4 s.e.t 1,645.4 1,214.6 863.2 dental 427.9 335.7 242.8 spine &amp; cmf 662.0 404.4 207.2 other 328.8 233.3 138.5 total $ 7,683.9 $ 5,997.8 $ 4,673.3 19. leases total rent expense for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 aggregated $74.0 million, $60.1 million, and $48.4 million, respectively. future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of december 31, 2016 were (in millions): for the years ending december 31, 2017 $ 69.5 2018 58.7 2019 47.6 2020 38.9 2021 28.4 thereafter 88.7 20. commitments and contingencies on a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to loss contingencies and update our accruals, disclosures and estimates of reasonably possible losses or ranges of loss based on such reviews. we establish liabilities for loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. for matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible, but not probable, no accrual has been made. litigation durom &reg; cup-related claims : on july 22, 2008, we temporarily suspended marketing and distribution of the durom cup in the u.s. subsequently, a number of product liability lawsuits were filed against us in various u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. the plaintiffs seek damages for personal injury, and they generally allege that the durom cup contains defects that result in complications and premature revision of the device. we have settled some of these claims and others are still pending. the majority of the pending u.s. lawsuits are currently in a federal multidistrict litigation ( mdl ) in the district of new jersey ( in re: zimmer durom hip cup products liability litigation ). multi-plaintiff state court cases are pending in st. clair county, illinois ( santas, et al. v. zimmer, inc., et al. ) and los angeles county, california ( mcallister, et al. v. zimmer, inc., et al. ). the initial trial in santas took place in november 2014, the initial trial in the mdl took place in may 2015 and the initial trial in mcallister took place in july 2015. as of december 31, 2016, all litigation activity in the mdl, santas and mcallister is stayed until mid-2017 to allow participation in the u.s. durom cup settlement program, an extrajudicial program created to resolve actions and claims of eligible u.s. plaintiffs and claimants. other lawsuits are pending in various domestic and foreign jurisdictions, and additional claims may be asserted in the future. the majority of claims outside the u.s. are pending in canada, germany and the u.k. a canadian class settlement was approved in late 2016. trials have commenced in germany, and the majority of claims in the u.k. are consolidated in a group litigation order. since 2008, we have recognized expense of $479.4 million for durom cup-related claims. our estimate of our total liability for these claims as of december 31, 2016 remains consistent with our estimate as of december 31, 2015, and, accordingly, we did not record any additional expense during the year ended december 31, 2016. we recognized $7.7 million and $21.5 million in expense for durom cup-related claims in 2015 and 2014, respectively. we maintain insurance for product liability claims, subject to self-insurance retention requirements. as of december 31, 2016, we have exhausted our self-insured retention under our insurance program and have a claim for insurance proceeds for ultimate losses which exceed the self-insured retention amount, subject to a 20 percent co-payment requirement and a cap. we believe our contracts with the insurance carriers are enforceable for these claims and, therefore, it is probable that we will recover some amount from our insurance carriers. we have received a portion of the insurance proceeds we estimate we will recover. we have a $95.3 million receivable in other assets remaining on our consolidated balance sheet as of 71 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2016 for estimated insurance recoveries for durom cup-related claims. as is customary in this process, our insurance carriers have reserved all rights under their respective policies and could still ultimately deny coverage for some or all of our insurance claims. our estimate as of december 31, 2016 of the remaining liability for all durom cup-related claims is $293.6 million, of which $75.0 million is classified as short-term in other current liabilities and $218.6 million is classified as long-term in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. we expect to pay the majority of the durom cup-related claims within the next few years. our understanding of clinical outcomes with the durom cup and other large diameter hip cups continues to evolve. we rely on significant estimates in determining the provisions for durom cup-related claims, including our estimate of the number of claims that we will receive and the average amount we will pay per claim. the actual number of claims and the actual amount we pay per claim may differ from our estimates. among other factors, since our understanding of the clinical outcomes is still evolving, we cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss that may result from durom cup-related claims in excess of the losses we have accrued. margo and daniel polett v. zimmer, inc. et al. : on august 20, 2008, margo and daniel polett filed an action against us and an unrelated third party, public communications, inc. ( pci ), in the court of common pleas, philadelphia, pennsylvania seeking an unspecified amount of damages for injuries and loss of consortium allegedly suffered by mrs. polett and her spouse, respectively. the complaint alleged that defendants were negligent in connection with mrs. polett participation in a promotional video featuring one of our knee products. the case was tried in november 2010 and the jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiffs. the jury awarded $27.6 million in compensatory damages and apportioned fault 30 percent to plaintiffs, 34 percent to us and 36 percent to pci. under applicable law, we may be liable for any portion of the damages apportioned to pci that it does not pay. on december 2, 2010, we and pci filed a motion for post-trial relief seeking a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, a new trial or a remittitur. on june 10, 2011, the trial court entered an order denying our motion for post-trial relief and affirming the jury verdict in full and entered judgment for $20.3 million against us and pci. on june 29, 2011, we filed a notice of appeal to the superior court of pennsylvania and posted a bond for the verdict amount plus interest. oral argument before the appellate court in philadelphia, pennsylvania was held on march 13, 2012. on march 1, 2013, the superior court of pennsylvania vacated the $27.6 million judgment and remanded the case for a new trial. on march 15, 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion for re-argument en banc , and on march 28, 2013, we filed our response in opposition. on may 9, 2013, the superior court of pennsylvania granted plaintiffs motion for re-argument en banc . oral argument (re-argument en banc ) before the superior court of pennsylvania was held on october 16, 2013. on december 20, 2013, the court issued its opinion again vacating the trial court judgment and remanding the case for a new trial. on january 21, 2014, plaintiffs filed a petition for allowance of appeal in the supreme court of pennsylvania, which was granted on may 21, 2014. oral argument before the supreme court of pennsylvania took place on october 8, 2014. on october 27, 2015, the supreme court of pennsylvania reversed the order of the superior court of pennsylvania and remanded the case to that court to consider the question of whether the trial court erred in refusing to remit the jury compensatory damages award. on june 6, 2016, an en banc panel of the superior court of pennsylvania vacated the $27.6 million verdict and remanded the case back to the trial court for remittitur. on december 2, 2016, the trial court remitted the verdict to $21.5 million. on december 5, 2016, we filed a notice of appeal to the superior court of pennsylvania. although we are defending this lawsuit vigorously, its ultimate resolution is uncertain. in the future, we could be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. nexgen &reg; knee system claims : following a wide-spread advertising campaign conducted by certain law firms beginning in 2010, a number of product liability lawsuits have been filed against us in various jurisdictions. the plaintiffs seek damages for personal injury, alleging that certain products within the nexgen knee system suffer from defects that cause them to loosen prematurely. the majority of the cases are currently pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of illinois ( in re: zimmer nexgen knee implant products liability litigation ). other cases are pending in other state and federal courts, and additional lawsuits may be filed. as of december 31, 2016, discovery in these lawsuits was ongoing. the initial bellwether trial took place in october 2015 and resulted in a defense verdict. the next scheduled bellwether trial, which was set to commence in november 2016, was dismissed following the court grant of summary judgment in our favor in october 2016. the second bellwether trial took place in january 2017 and resulted in a defense verdict. we have not accrued an estimated loss relating to these lawsuits because we believe the plaintiffs allegations are not consistent with the record of clinical success for these products. as a result, we do not believe that it is probable that we have incurred a liability, and we cannot reasonably estimate any loss that might eventually be incurred. although we are vigorously defending these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is uncertain. biomet metal-on-metal hip implant claims : biomet is a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits relating to metal-on-metal hip implants. the majority of these cases involve the m2a-magnum hip system. the majority of the cases are currently consolidated in one federal mdl proceeding in the u.s. district court for the northern district of indiana (in re: biomet m2a magnum hip implant product liability litigation) . other cases are pending in various state and foreign courts. 72 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) on february 3, 2014, biomet announced the settlement of the mdl. lawsuits filed in the mdl by april 15, 2014 may participate in the settlement. biomet continues to evaluate the inventory of lawsuits in the mdl pursuant to the categories and procedures set forth in the settlement agreement. the final amount of payments under the settlement is uncertain. the settlement does not affect certain other claims relating to biomet metal-on-metal hip products that are pending in various state and foreign courts, or other claims that may be filed in the future. our estimate as of december 31, 2016 of the remaining liability for all biomet metal-on-metal hip implant claims is $57.4 million. biomet has exhausted the self-insured retention in its insurance program and has been reimbursed for claims related to its metal-on-metal products up to its policy limits in the program. zimmer biomet will be responsible for any amounts by which the ultimate losses exceed the amount of biomet third-party insurance coverage. as of december 31, 2016, biomet had received all of the insurance proceeds it expects to recover under the excess policies. although we are vigorously defending these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is uncertain. heraeus trade secret misappropriation lawsuits : in december 2008, heraeus kulzer gmbh (together with its affiliates, heraeus ) initiated legal proceedings in germany against biomet, inc., biomet europe bv, certain other entities and certain employees alleging that the defendants misappropriated heraeus trade secrets when developing biomet europe refobacin and biomet bone cement line of cements ( european cements ). the lawsuit sought to preclude the defendants from producing, marketing and offering for sale their current line of european cements and to compensate heraeus for any damages incurred (alleged at that time to be in excess of 30.0 million). on june 5, 2014, the german appeals court in frankfurt (i) enjoined biomet, inc., biomet europe bv and biomet deutschland gmbh from manufacturing, selling or offering the european cements to the extent they contain certain raw materials in particular specifications; (ii) held the defendants jointly and severally liable to heraeus for any damages from the sale of european cements since 2005; and (iii) ruled that no further review may be sought (the frankfurt decision ). the heraeus and biomet parties both sought appeal against the frankfurt decision. in a decision dated june 16, 2016, the german supreme court dismissed the parties appeals without reaching the merits, rendering that decision final. in december 2016, heraeus filed papers to restart proceedings against biomet orthopaedics switzerland gmbh, seeking to require that entity to relinquish its ce certificates for the european cements. in january 2017, heraeus notified biomet it had filed a claim for damages in the amount of 121.9 million for sales in germany. as of the date of filing of this report, the biomet entities had not yet been served formally with that claim. on september 8, 2014, heraeus filed a complaint against a biomet supplier, esschem, inc. ( esschem ), in the united states district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania. the lawsuit contains allegations that focus on two copolymer compounds that esschem sells to biomet, which biomet incorporates into certain bone cement products that compete with heraeus bone cement products. the complaint alleges that biomet helped esschem to develop these copolymers, using heraeus trade secrets that biomet allegedly misappropriated. the complaint asserts a claim under the pennsylvania trade secrets act, as well as other various common law tort claims, all based upon the same trade secret misappropriation theory. heraeus is seeking to enjoin esschem from supplying the copolymers to any third party and actual damages in an unspecified amount. the complaint also seeks punitive damages, costs and attorneys fees. if esschem is enjoined, biomet may not be able to obtain the copolymers from another supplier and as a result may not be able to continue to manufacture the subject bone cement products. although heraeus has not named biomet as a party to this lawsuit, biomet has agreed, at esschem request and subject to certain limitations, to indemnify esschem for any liability, damages and legal costs related to this matter. on november 3, 2014, the court entered an order denying heraeus motion for a temporary restraining order. on june 30, 2016, the court entered an order denying heraeus request to give preclusive effect to the factual findings in the frankfurt decision. a trial is scheduled to commence on june 19, 2017. heraeus continues to pursue other related legal proceedings in europe seeking various forms of relief, including injunctive relief and damages, against biomet-related entities relating to the european cements. we have accrued an estimated loss relating to the frankfurt decision, but have not recognized any losses for heraeus-related lawsuits in other jurisdictions because we do not believe it is probable that we have incurred a liability, and we cannot reasonably estimate any loss that might eventually be incurred. damages relating to the frankfurt decision are subject to separate proceedings and it is reasonably possible that our estimate of the loss we may incur may change in the future. although we are vigorously defending these lawsuits, their ultimate resolution is uncertain. stryker patent infringement lawsuit : on december 10, 2010, stryker corporation and related entities ( stryker ) filed suit against us in the u.s. district court for the western district of michigan, alleging that certain of our pulsavac &reg; plus wound debridement products infringe three u.s. patents assigned to stryker. the case was tried beginning on january 15, 2013, and on february 5, 2013, the jury found that we infringed certain claims of the subject patents. the jury awarded $70.0 million in monetary damages for lost profits. the jury also found that we willfully infringed the subject patents. we filed multiple post-trial motions, including a motion seeking a new trial. on august 7, 2013, the trial court issued a ruling denying all of our motions and awarded treble damages and attorneys fees to stryker. we filed a notice of appeal to the court of appeals for the federal circuit to seek reversal of both the jury verdict and the trial court rulings 73 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) on our post-trial motions. oral argument before the court of appeals for the federal circuit took place on september 8, 2014. on december 19, 2014, the federal circuit issued a decision affirming the $70.0 million lost profits award but reversed the willfulness finding, vacating the treble damages award and vacating and remanding the attorneys fees award. we accrued an estimated loss of $70.0 million related to this matter in the three month period ended december 31, 2014. on january 20, 2015, stryker filed a motion with the federal circuit for a rehearing en banc . on march 23, 2015, the federal circuit denied stryker petition. stryker subsequently filed a petition for certiorari to the u.s. supreme court. in july 2015, we paid the final award of $90.3 million, which includes the original $70.0 million plus pre-and post-judgment interest and damages for sales that occurred post-trial but prior to our entry into a license agreement with stryker. on october 19, 2015, the u.s. supreme court granted stryker petition for certiorari. oral argument took place on february 23, 2016. on june 13, 2016, the u.s. supreme court issued its decision, vacating the judgment of the federal circuit and remanding the case for further proceedings related to the willfulness issue. on september 12, 2016, the federal circuit issued an opinion affirming the jury willfulness finding and vacating and remanding the district court award of treble damages, its finding that this was an exceptional case and its award of attorneys fees. the case is now being remanded back to the district court. oral argument on stryker renewed consolidated motion for enhanced damages and attorneys fees is scheduled for june 28, 2017. although we are defending this lawsuit vigorously, the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain. in the future, we could be required to record a charge of up to $165.0 million that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. putative class action: on december 2, 2016, a complaint was filed in the u.s. district court for the northern district of indiana ( shah v. zimmer biomet holdings, inc. et al.) , naming us and three of our officers as defendants. the complaint relates to a putative class action on behalf of persons who purchased our common stock between september 7, 2016 and october 31, 2016. the complaint alleges that the defendants violated federal securities laws by making materially false and/or misleading statements and failing to disclose that supply chain issues led to a decrease in order fulfillment rates in the third quarter of 2016 and would cause us to lower our revenue and earnings guidance for full-year 2016. the plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and interest, attorneys fees, costs and other relief. we believe this lawsuit is without merit, and we and the individual defendants intend to defend it vigorously. regulatory matters, government investigations and other matters fda warning letters : in september 2012, zimmer received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain processes pertaining to products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. in june 2015, biomet received a warning letter from the fda that requested additional information to allow the fda to evaluate the adequacy of biomet responses to certain form 483 observations issued following an inspection of biomet zhejiang, china manufacturing facility in january 2015. in may 2016, zimmer received a warning letter from the fda related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the qsr at our facility in montreal, quebec, canada. we have provided detailed responses to the fda as to our corrective actions and will continue to work expeditiously to address the issues identified by the fda during inspections in ponce, zhejiang and montreal. as of december 31, 2016, these warning letters remained pending. until the violations are corrected, we may be subject to additional regulatory action by the fda, as described more fully below. additionally, requests for certificates to foreign governments related to products manufactured at certain of our facilities may not be granted and premarket approval applications for class iii devices to which the qsr deviations at these facilities are reasonably related will not be approved until the violations have been corrected. in addition to responding to the warning letters described above, we are in the process of addressing various fda form 483 inspectional observations at certain of our manufacturing facilities, including at both the legacy zimmer and the legacy biomet manufacturing facilities in warsaw, indiana. the ultimate outcome of these matters is presently uncertain. among other available regulatory actions, the fda may impose operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations, on one or more facilities, enjoining and restraining certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assessing civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda could also issue a corporate warning letter, a recidivist warning letter or a consent decree of permanent injunction. the fda may also recommend prosecution by the doj. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. dpa relating to fcpa matters : on january 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed fcpa matters involving biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. as part of the settlement, biomet resolved matters with the sec through an administrative cease-and-desist order (the order ); (ii) we entered into a dpa with the doj; and (iii) jerds luxembourg holding s.&agrave; r.l. ( jerds ), the direct parent company of biomet 3i mexico sa de cv and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of biomet, entered into a plea agreement (the plea agreement ) with the doj. the conduct underlying these resolutions occurred prior to the biomet merger. pursuant to the terms of the order, biomet resolved claims with the sec related to violations of the books and records, internal controls and anti-bribery provisions of the fcpa by disgorging profits to the u.s. government in an 74 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and subsidiaries 2016 form 10-k annual report notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) aggregate amount of approximately $6.5 million, inclusive of pre-judgment interest, and paying a civil penalty in the amount of $6.5 million (collectively, the civil settlement payments ). we also agreed to pay a criminal penalty of approximately $17.5 million (together with the civil settlement payments, the settlement payments ) to the u.s. government pursuant to the terms of the dpa. we made the settlement payments in january 2017 and, as previously disclosed, had accrued, as of june 24, 2015, the closing date of the biomet merger, an amount sufficient to cover this matter. under the dpa, which has a term of three years, the doj agreed to defer criminal prosecution of us in connection with the charged violation of the internal controls provision of the fcpa as long as we comply with the terms of the dpa. in addition, we will be subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor for at least 12 months. the monitor will focus on legacy biomet operations as integrated into our operations. if we remain in compliance with the dpa during its term, the charges against us will be dismissed with prejudice. the term of the dpa may be extended for up to one additional year at the doj discretion. in addition, under its plea agreement with the doj, jerds pleaded guilty on january 13, 2017 to aiding and abetting a violation of the books and records provision of the fcpa. in light of the dpa we entered into, jerds paid only a nominal assessment and no criminal penalty. if we do not comply with the terms of the dpa, we could be subject to prosecution for violating the internal controls provisions of the fcpa and the conduct of biomet and its subsidiaries described in the dpa, which conduct pre-dated our acquisition of biomet, as well as any new or continuing violations. we could also be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21. quarterly financial information (unaudited) (in millions, except per share data) 2016 quarter ended 2015 quarter ended mar jun sep dec mar jun sep dec net sales $ 1,904.0 $ 1,934.0 $ 1,832.8 $ 2,013.1 $ 1,134.4 $ 1,167.6 $ 1,762.2 $ 1,933.6 gross profit 1,136.8 1,160.1 1,189.2 1,250.1 829.1 840.3 1,087.5 1,102.9 net earnings (loss) of zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 108.8 (31.3 ) 158.8 69.6 171.4 (173.6 ) 22.2 127.0 earnings (loss) per common share basic 0.54 (0.16 ) 0.79 0.35 1.01 (1.00 ) 0.11 0.62 diluted 0.54 (0.16 ) 0.78 0.34 0.99 (1.00 ) 0.11 0.62 in the three month period ended september 30, 2016, we recognized $21.0 million of tax benefits and $12.2 million of pre-tax operating expenses that were related to previous periods. the majority of the tax benefits were related to adjusting certain biomet purchase accounting values. in the three month period ended december 31, 2016, we recognized $13.0 million of tax provisions that were related to previous periods. we have evaluated the effect of these out-of-period adjustments on the applicable interim and annual periods of 2016 and prior years in which they should have been recognized, and concluded for both quantitative and qualitative reasons that these adjustments were not material to any of the periods affected. 75 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none. item 9a. controls and procedures evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures . we maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 13a-15(f) under the exchange act) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the exchange act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the securities and exchange commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. because of inherent limitations, disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of disclosure controls and procedures are met. our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that as of december 31, 2016, the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective due to the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting discussed in management report on internal control over financial reporting included in item 7a. in light of this material weakness, the company performed additional analysis and other post-closing procedures to ensure our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. accordingly, management concluded that the financial statements included in this report fairly present in all material respects our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. remediation plan . management has begun implementing a remediation plan to address the control deficiencies that led to the material weakness. the remediation plan includes adding additional resources and strengthening our income tax controls with improved technical oversight and training. we believe these additional resources will enhance our review procedures and will effectively remediate the material weakness, but the material weakness will not be considered remediated until the applicable measures have been implemented for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that the enhanced control is operating effectively. as we continue to evaluate and improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may decide to take additional measures to address this material weakness, which may require additional implementation time. further, we cannot provide any assurance that our remediation efforts will be successful or that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective as a result of these efforts. changes in internal control over financial reporting . there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2016 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 76 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report item 9b. other information during the fourth quarter of 2016, the audit committee of our board of directors was not asked to, and did not, approve the engagement of pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our independent registered public accounting firm, to perform any non-audit services. this disclosure is made pursuant to section 10a(i)(2) of the exchange act. 77 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on may 12, 2017 (the 2017 proxy statement ). we have adopted the zimmer biomet code of ethics for chief executive officer and senior financial officers (the finance code of ethics ), a code of ethics that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and corporate controller, and other finance organization senior employees. the finance code of ethics is publicly available in the investor relations section of our website, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmerbiomet.com or directly at http://investor.zimmerbiomet.com. if we make any substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or chief accounting officer and corporate controller, we will disclose the nature of that amendment in the investor relations section of our website. item 11. executive compensation information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2017 proxy statement. item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2017 proxy statement. item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our 2017 proxy statement. item 14. principal accounting fees and services information required by this item is incorporated by reference from of our 2017 proxy statement. 78 table of contents zimmer biomet holdings, inc. 2016 form 10-k annual report part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules (a) 1. financial statements the following consolidated financial statements of zimmer biomet holdings, inc. and its subsidiaries are set forth in part ii,risk factors 13 risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. our business, financial condition and results of 13 operations may be impacted by a number of factors. in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition or resul ts of operations, including causing our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. the following list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. additional risk and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect us in future periods. you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. we may experience a disruption of our business activities due to the transition to a new chief executive officer. effective as of december 19, 2017, our board of directors appointed bryan c. hanson as president and chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors. recently hired executives may view the business differently than prior members of management, and over time may make changes to our strategic focus, operations, business plans, existing personnel and their responsibilities. we can give no assurances that we will be able to properly manage any such shift in focus, or that any changes to our business would ultimately prove successful. in addition, leadership transitions and management changes can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause uncertainty or a disruption to our business or may increase the likelihood of turnover in key officers and employees. our success depends in part on having a successful leadership team. if we cannot effectively manage leadership transitions and management changes, it could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. we can give no assurances that we will be able to retain the services of any of our current executives or other key employees. if we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees, retaining and motivating existing employees or integrating new executives and employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the biomet and ldr mergers and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the biomet merger in 2015 and the ldr holding corporation ( ldr ) merger in 2016. at december 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $10.1 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion at december 31, 2014 . we funded the cash portion of the biomet merger consideration, the pay-off of certain indebtedness of biomet and the payment of transaction-related expenses through a combination of available cash-on-hand and proceeds from debt financings, including proceeds from a $7.65 billion issuance of senior unsecured notes in march 2015 and borrowings of $3.0 billion under a five-year term loan ( u.s. term loan a ) in june 2015. in addition, in september 2016, we borrowed $750 million under a three-year unsecured term loan facility and utilized these funds to repay outstanding borrowings under our revolving facility incurred in connection with the acquisition of ldr. also, in december 2016, we issued 1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes and used the proceeds to repay a portion of the u.s. dollar-denominated senior notes issued in connection with the biomet merger. further, in september 2017, we borrowed 21.3 billion japanese yen under a five-year term loan and utilized these funds to pay down a portion of u.s. term loan a. as of december 31, 2017, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding capital leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $1,522.4 million. as a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. the increased level of debt could, among other things: require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired; 14 adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and limit our ability to apply proceeds from a future offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. if we fail to comply with the terms of the dpa that we entered into in january 2017, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. on january 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed fcpa matters involving biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. as part of the settlement, we entered into a dpa with the doj. a copy of the dpa is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. if we do not comply with the terms of the dpa, we could be subject to prosecution for violating the internal controls provisions of the fcpa and the conduct of biomet and its subsidiaries described in the dpa, which conduct pre-dated our acquisition of biomet, as well as any new or continuing violations. we could also be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions. our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: unforeseen difficulties in integrating personnel and sales forces, operations, manufacturing, logistics, research and development, information technology, communications, purchasing, accounting, marketing, administration and other systems and processes; difficulties harmonizing and optimizing quality systems and operations; diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; potential loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs. as a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. these risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have manufacturing sites all over the world. in some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. damage to one or more of our facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, such as the recent hurricanes that affected our employees and operations at our guaynabo, puerto rico and ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facilities, or issues in our manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the qsr and good manufacturing practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for regulatory approvals. as a result, we may experience loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party vendors and we outsource some key manufacturing activities. certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. in certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement vendors for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our vendors' manufacturing processes. a reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products; an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we are subject to the sec's rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. this rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. in addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products. we have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures. as a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. we are subject to various governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the products we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market these products can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations and other local, state and foreign requirements. compliance with these requirements, including the qsr, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda and other regulators, which may result in observations (such as on form 483), and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda or another regulator were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, they could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such products, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda or other regulators may also impose operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations, on one or more facilities, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to our products and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda or other regulators could also issue a corporate warning letter, a recidivist warning letter, a consent decree of permanent injunction, and/or recommend prosecution. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain processes pertaining to products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. in may 2016, we received a warning letter from the fda related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the qsr at our facility in montreal, quebec, canada. as of december 31, 2017, these warning letters remained pending. until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the fda as described above, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results 16 of operations. additional information regarding these and other fda regulatory matters can be found in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. if we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse or data privacy and security laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our industry is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal physician payments sunshine act and similar state and foreign laws. in addition, we are subject to various federal and foreign laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters, sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration health programs. these laws are administered by, among others, the doj, the oig-hhs, the sec, the ofac, the bureau of industry and security of the u.s. department of commerce and state attorneys general. we are also subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure and protection of health-related and other personal information. certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under hipaa. the fda also has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices. international data protection laws, including the eu data protection directive and member state implementing legislation, may also apply to some of our operations and restrict our ability to collect, analyze and transfer eu personal data. moreover, the general data protection regulation, an eu-wide regulation that will be fully enforceable by may 25, 2018, will introduce new data protection requirements in the eu and substantial fines for violations of the data protection rules. the interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change. failure to comply with u.s. and international data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect our information systems or data, including from data breaches, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, including the biomet merger, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. we also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and, as a result, we manage a number of third-party vendors who may or could have access to our confidential information. our information systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, given their size and complexity, these systems could be vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party vendors and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties attempting to gain unauthorized access to our products, systems or confidential information (including, but not limited to, intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information). cyber-attacks, such as those involving the deployment of malware, are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity and have become increasingly difficult to detect. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: lose existing customers; have difficulty attracting new customers; have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; 17 have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud; have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals; have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed; incur increased operating expenses; incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach; or suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful. despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that cyber-attacks or data breaches will not occur or that systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, breach, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: pricing; technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents' and distributors' sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing 18 and potential customers because of the agents' detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of our agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the musculoskeletal implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors' offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost- 19 effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization's affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived approximately 40 percent of our net sales in 2017 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures and import or export requirements that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the fcpa; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. 20 we may have additional tax liabiliti es. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 was signed into law on december 22, 2017 (the 2017 tax act ), with significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system, including a federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35 percent to 21 percent, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, and the transition of u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. the u.s. treasury has provided limited guidance on aspects of the 2017 tax act, and we anticipate further guidance will be provided in the future. on december 22, 2017, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ), expressing its views on the application of financial accounting standards board accounting standards codification topic 740, income taxes , in the reporting period that includes december 22, 2017 . for the financial statements that include the reporting period in which the 2017 tax act was enacted, sab 118 provides a provisional approach to reflect the income tax effects of the 2017 tax act. the actual effects of the 2017 tax act and the final amounts recorded may differ materially from our current estimates of provisional amounts included in this annual report on form 10-k. further, our tax expense and cash flow could be materially impacted as we finalize the financial accounting for the 2017 tax act, and incorporate future regulatory guidance provided by the u.s. treasury. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as discussed further in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the durom acetabular component ( durom cup ), certain products within the nexgen knee system, and the m2a-magnum tm hip system. the majority of the durom cup cases are pending in a federal multidistrict litigation ( mdl ) in the district of new jersey ( in re: zimmer durom hip cup products liability litigation ); the majority of the nexgen knee system cases are pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of illinois ( in re: zimmer nexgen knee implant products liability litigation ); and the majority of the m2a-magnum hip system cases are pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of indiana ( in re: biomet m2a magnum hip implant products liability litigation ). we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to pay for defense costs, or to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any defense costs, settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litiga tion related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other propr ietary rights against others. claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. at any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. we rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. for example, as discussed further in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, we are defending a purported class action lawsuit, shah v. zimmer biomet holdings, inc. et al., filed against us, certain of our current and former officers, certain current and former members of our board of directors, and certain former stockholders of ours who sold shares of our common stock in secondary public offerings in 2016, alleging that we and other defendants violated federal securities laws by making materially false and/or misleading statements and/or omissions about our compliance with fda regulations and our ability to continue to accelerate our organic revenue growth rate in the second half of 2016. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, primarily goodwill. at december 31, 2017, we had $10.7 billion in goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity, including the biomet and ldr mergers, and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. as discussed further in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $304.7 million in 2017. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or 22 future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges. any write-off of a material port ion of our unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016. while the particular material weakness has been remediated as of december 31, 2017, additional material weaknesses or relapses of this material weakness could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements. we are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act. as discussed in part ii, item 9a of this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 related to management's controls over accounting for income taxes. a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. during 2017, we executed our remediation plans to address the material weakness. however, if the remedial measures are not adhered to or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. developments relating to the uk's referendum vote in favor of leaving the eu could adversely affect us. the uk held a referendum in june 2016 in which voters approved the uk's voluntary exit from the eu, commonly referred to as brexit . the effects of brexit are expected to be far-reaching. brexit and the perceptions as to its impact may adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in europe and globally and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets. brexit could also have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and people between the uk and the eu; however, the full effects of brexit are uncertain and will depend on any agreements the uk may make to retain access to eu markets. brexit could also lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. also, as a result of brexit, other european countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the eu. given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by brexit is uncertain. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, our restated by-laws and the delaware general corporation law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. these provisions provide for, among other things: the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without further stockholder action; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; and the prohibition on engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the time at which a person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met, as set forth in section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. as a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. 23 our restated by-laws designate certain delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial foru m for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. our restated by-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the state of delaware (or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the district of delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law or our restated certificate of incorporation or our restated by-laws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. this choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts and options with major financial institutions. these forward contracts and options are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts and options that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2017, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2018 through june 2020. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2017 were $1,735.9 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2017 were $291.3 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2017 were euro:usd 1.17, usd:swiss 41 franc 0.94, usd:japanese yen 106.74, british pound:usd 1.39, usd:canadian dollar 1.30, australian dollar:usd 0.75, usd:korean won 1,137, usd:swedish krona 8.36, usd:czech kor una 23.01, usd:thai baht 34.82, usd:taiwan dollar 30.86, usd:south african rand 14.26, usd:russian ruble 63.05, usd:indian ruppee 69.12, usd:turkish lira 3.96, usd:polish zloty 3.80, usd:danish krone 6.42, and usd:norwegian krone 8.19. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2017 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2020, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): average currency amount euro $ 59.5 swiss franc 29.8 japanese yen 47.7 british pound 4.7 canadian dollar 16.3 australian dollar 19.3 korean won 3.2 swedish krona 2.4 czech koruna 1.5 thai baht 0.8 taiwan dollars 3.8 south african rand 0.9 russian rubles 1.6 indian rupees 1.3 turkish lira 0.1 polish zloty 2.9 danish krone 3.9 norwegian krone 2.0 any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net assets, excluding goodwill, in legal entities with non-u.s. dollar functional currencies of $2,839.5 million at december 31, 2017, primarily in euros, japanese yen and australian dollars. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair value methodologies, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. 42 commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. we are exposed to interest rate risk on our debt obligations and our cash and cash equivalents. we have multiple variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements that we have designated as cash flow hedges of the variable interest rate obligations on our u.s. term loan b. the total notional amount is $375.0 million. the interest rate swaps minimize the exposure to changes in the libor interest rates while the variable-rate debt is outstanding. the weighted average fixed interest rate for all of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements is approximately 0.82 percent through september 30, 2019. the interest rate swap agreements are intended to manage our exposure to interest rate movements by converting variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. the objective of the instruments is to limit exposure to interest rate movements. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair value methodologies, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2017, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the principal amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on net interest expense. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments, counterparty transactions and accounts receivable. we place our investments in highly-rated financial institutions or highly-rated debt securities and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents. we are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions or counterparties issuing the debt security fail to perform. however, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. we also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. we manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. we do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. 43 our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is li mited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our tr ade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, eco nomic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries' national economic and healthcare systems . most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. to the extent the respective governments' ability t o fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 44risk factors 13 risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors. in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, including causing our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking 13 statements. the following list of significant risk factors is not all-i nclusive or necessarily in order of importance. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect us in future periods. you should carefully consider these risks and u ncertainties before investing in our securities. if we fail to comply with the terms of the dpa that we entered into in january 2017, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. on january 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed fcpa matters involving biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. as part of the settlement, we entered into a dpa with the doj. a copy of the dpa is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. if we do not comply with the terms of the dpa, we could be subject to prosecution for violating the internal controls provisions of the fcpa and the conduct of biomet and its subsidiaries described in the dpa, which conduct pre-dated our acquisition of biomet, as well as any new or continuing violations. we could also be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicaid and medicare. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions. our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: unforeseen difficulties in integrating personnel and sales forces, operations, manufacturing, logistics, research and development, information technology, communications, purchasing, accounting, marketing, administration and other systems and processes; difficulties harmonizing and optimizing quality systems and operations; diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; potential loss of key employees; unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs. as a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. these risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have manufacturing sites all over the world. in some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. damage to one or more of our facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, or issues in our manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the qsr and good manufacturing practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for regulatory approvals. as a result, we may experience loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party vendors and we outsource some key manufacturing activities. certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. in certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement vendors for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our vendors' manufacturing processes. a reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products; an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, we are subject to the sec's rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. this rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. in addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products. we have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures. as a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the products we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market these products can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations and other local, state and foreign requirements. compliance with these requirements, including the qsr, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda and other regulators, which may result in observations (such as on form 483), and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda or another regulator were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, they could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such products, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda or other regulators may also impose operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations at one or more facilities, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to our products and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda or other regulators could also issue a corporate warning letter, a recidivist warning letter, a consent decree of permanent injunction, and/or recommend prosecution. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain processes pertaining to products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. in may 2016, we received a warning letter from the fda related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the qsr at our facility in montreal, quebec, canada. in august 2018, we received a warning letter from the fda related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the qsr at our warsaw north campus manufacturing facility. as of february 20, 2019, these warning letters remained pending. until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the fda as described above, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of 15 operations. additional information regarding these and other fda regulatory matters can be found in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. govern mental regulations outside the u.s. have and may continue to become increasingly stringent and complex. in the eu, for example, a new medical device regulation was published in 2017 which, when it enters into full force in 2020, will include significant additional premarket and post- market requirements. complying with the requirements of this regulation will require us to incur significant expense. additionally, the availability of industry notified body services certified to the new requirements is limited, which may cause delays in our receipt of ce certificate approvals and eu medical device regulation submission approvals. any such delays, or any failure to meet the requirements of the new regulation, could adversely impact our business in the eu and other regions that tie their product registrations to the eu requirements. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. if we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse or data privacy and security laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our industry is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, the federal stark law, the federal physician payments sunshine act and similar state and foreign laws. in addition, we are subject to various federal and foreign laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters, sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration health programs. these laws are administered by, among others, the doj, the oig-hhs, the sec, the ofac, the bureau of industry and security of the u.s. department of commerce and state attorneys general. we are also subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure and protection of health-related and other personal information. the fda also has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices. in addition, certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under hipaa. hipaa governs the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by hipaa covered entities and their business associates. covered entities are health care providers that engage in specific types of electronic transactions, health plans, and health care clearinghouses. a business associate is any person or entity (other than members of a covered entity's workforce) that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information. hhs (through the office for civil rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to compliance with hipaa regulations. on december 12, 2018, the office for civil rights of hhs issued a request for information seeking input from the public on how the hipaa regulations could be modified to amend existing obligations relating to the processing of protected health information. we will monitor this process and assess the impact of changes to the hipaa regulations to our business. in addition to the fda guidance and hipaa regulations described above, a number of u.s. states have also enacted data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the confidentiality, security, use and disclosure of sensitive personal information, such as social security numbers, medical and financial information and other personal information. these laws and regulations may be more restrictive and not preempted by u.s. federal laws. these state laws include the ccpa, which was signed into law on june 28, 2018 and largely takes effect january 1, 2020. the ccpa, among other things, contains new disclosure obligations for businesses that collect personal information about california residents and affords those individuals new rights relating to their personal information that may affect our ability to use personal information. we will continue to monitor and assess the impact of the ccpa, which has substantial penalties for non-compliance and carries significant potential liability, on our business. outside of the u.s., data protection laws, including the gdpr, also apply to some of our operations in the countries in which we provide services to our customers. legal requirements in these countries relating to the collection, storage, processing and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. the gdpr imposes, among other things, data protection requirements that include strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer eu personal data, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances, and possible substantial fines for any violations (including possible fines for certain violations 16 of up to 4% of total company revenue) . other governmental authorities around the world are considering imilar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. the interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change, and may require substantial costs to monitor and implement compliance with any additional requirements. failure to comply with u.s. and international data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include substantial civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could negatively affect our operating results and business. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions. at december 31, 2018, our total indebtedness was $8.9 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion at december 31, 2014 . as of december 31, 2018, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $776.9 million. as a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. the increased level of debt could, among other things: require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired; adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and limit our ability to apply proceeds from a future offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect our information systems or data, including from data breaches, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. we also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and, as a result, we manage a number of third-party vendors who may or could have access to our confidential information. our information systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, given their size and complexity, these systems could be vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party vendors and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties attempting to gain unauthorized access to our products, systems or confidential information (including, but not limited to, intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information). cyber-attacks, such as those involving the deployment of malware, are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity and have become increasingly difficult to detect. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: lose existing customers; have difficulty attracting new customers; 17 have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud; have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals; have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed; incur increased operating expenses; incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach; or suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful. despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that cyber-attacks or data breaches will not occur or that systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, breach, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: pricing; technology; innovation; quality; reputation; and customer service. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. 18 if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents' and distributors' sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents' detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of our agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the musculoskeletal implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors' offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. 19 if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization's affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived approximately 40 percent of our net sales in 2018 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; changes in foreign regulatory requirements, such as more stringent requirements for regulatory clearance of products; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s.; trade protection measures, import or export requirements and increased tariffs that may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s.; complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws; extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the fcpa; effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; 20 labor force instability; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 was signed into law on december 22, 2017 (the 2017 tax act ), with significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system, including a federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35 percent to 21 percent, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, and the transition of u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. although the u.s. treasury has provided guidance on aspects of the 2017 tax act, there still remains further guidance to be provided in the future. on december 22, 2017, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ), expressing its views on the application of financial accounting standards board accounting standards codification topic 740, income taxes , in the reporting period that includes december 22, 2017 . for the financial statements that include the reporting period in which the 2017 tax act was enacted, sab 118 provides a provisional approach to reflect the income tax effects of the 2017 tax act. we finalized our provisional amounts for the effects of the 2017 tax act in our 2018 annual report on form 10-k. however, our tax expense and cash flow could be impacted in the event of adverse future regulatory guidance provided by the u.s. treasury clarifying certain aspects of the 2017 tax act. if the medical device excise tax is not repealed or further suspended, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. as part of the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, as amended by the health care and education affordability reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the affordable care act or aca), in january 2013 we began paying a 2.3 percent medical device excise tax on the vast majority of our u.s sales. a two-year moratorium was placed on the tax effective january 1, 2016, and that moratorium was extended for an additional two years effective january 1, 2018. absent further legislative action, the tax will be automatically reinstated for u.s. medical device sales beginning january 1, 2020. if the medical device excise tax is reinstated, we will again be forced to identify ways to reduce spending in other areas to offset the earnings impact due to the tax. we do not expect to be able to pass along the cost of the tax to hospitals, which continue to face cuts to their medicare reimbursement under the affordable care act and other legislation. nor do we expect to be able to offset the cost of the tax through higher sales volumes resulting from any further expansion of health insurance coverage through aca exchanges or medicaid expansion because of the demographics of the current uninsured population. accordingly, reinstatement of the medical device excise tax could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro or the japanese yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. 21 pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our f inancial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as discussed further in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the durom acetabular component ( durom cup ), certain products within the m/l taper and m/l taper with kinectiv technology hip stems and versys femoral head implants, and the m2a-magnum tm hip system. the majority of the durom cup cases are pending in a federal multidistrict litigation ( mdl ) in the district of new jersey ( in re: zimmer durom hip cup products liability litigation ); the majority of the m/l taper and m/l taper with kinectiv technology hip stem cases and versys femoral head implant cases are pending in a federal mdl in the southern district of new york ( in re: zimmer m/l taper hip prosthesis or m/l taper hip prosthesis with kinectiv technology and versys femoral head products liability litigation ) ; and the majority of the m2a-magnum hip system cases are pending in a federal mdl in the northern district of indiana ( in re: biomet m2a magnum hip implant products liability litigation ). we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, we have substantial self-insured retention amounts that we must pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to pay for defense costs, or to satisfy a judgment or settlement. furthermore, even if any product liability loss is covered by our insurance, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies and we would have to pay the amount of any defense costs, settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. at any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. as discussed further in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, in 2015 we paid a compensatory damages award of approximately $90 million and in december 2018 we accrued an estimated loss of approximately $168 million related to an award of treble damages and attorneys' fees in a patent infringement lawsuit. patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. we rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure and other agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. while we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets and other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. in addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or of limited effect in some foreign countries. if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue. 22 we also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation with security measures, including the use of non-disclosure and other agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators. we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedi es for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. for example, as discussed further in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, we are defending a purported class action lawsuit, shah v. zimmer biomet holdings, inc. et al., filed against us, certain of our current and former officers, certain current and former members of our board of directors, and certain former stockholders of ours who sold shares of our common stock in secondary public offerings in 2016, alleging that we and other defendants violated federal securities laws by making materially false and/or misleading statements and/or omissions about our compliance with fda regulations and our ability to continue to accelerate our organic revenue growth rate in the second half of 2016. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. our assets include intangible assets, including goodwill. at december 31, 2018, we had $9.6 billion in goodwill. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. as discussed further in note 9 to our consolidated financial statements, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $975.9 million in 2018. if the operating performance at one or more of our business units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, we could be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges. any write-off of a material portion of our goodwill or unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. developments relating to the uk's referendum vote in favor of leaving the eu could adversely affect us. the uk held a referendum in june 2016 in which voters approved the uk's voluntary exit from the eu, commonly referred to as brexit . in march 2017, the uk formally notified the eu of its intention to withdraw, which commenced a period of up to two ye ars for negotiating the uk's withdrawal terms. the uk and the eu have been negotiating the terms of the uk's exit from the eu, which is scheduled for march 29, 2019. although the uk and the eu agreed upon a draft withdrawal agreement in november 2018, the uk parliament rejected the withdrawal agreement in january 2019, creating significant uncertainty as to the terms under which the uk will leave the eu. if the uk leaves the eu with no agreement, it will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade and will create further short-term currency volatility. brexit and the perceptions as to its impact have and may continue to adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in europe and globally and could contribute to instability in global fin ancial and foreign exchange markets. brexit could also have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and people between the uk and the eu. the future relationship for medical device products regulation and trade between the uk and the eu is currently uncertain and any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of brexit could result in significant expense and take significant time to complete. also, as a result of brexit, other european countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the eu. given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which we will be affected by brexit is uncertain. any of the potential negative effects of brexit could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, our restated by-laws and the delaware general corporation law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. these provisions provide for, among other things: the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without further stockholder action; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; and the prohibition on engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the time at which a person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met, as set forth in section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. as a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. our restated by-laws designate certain delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. our restated by-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the state of delaware (or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the district of delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law or our restated certificate of incorporation or our restated by-laws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. this choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 qu antitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2018, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2019 through june 2021. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2018 were $1,547.7 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2018 were $267.6 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2018 were euro:usd 1.23, usd:swiss franc 0.93, usd:japanese yen 105.55, british pound:usd 1.35, usd:canadian dollar 1.28, australian dollar:usd 0.76, usd:korean won 1,096, usd:swedish krona 8.26, usd:czech koruna 21.61, usd:thai baht 33.21, usd:taiwan dollar 29.36, usd:south african rand 13.82, usd:russian ruble 64.53, usd:indian ruppee 71.64, usd:turkish lira 5.11, usd:polish zloty 3.64, usd:danish krone 6.09, and usd:norwegian krone 7.99. we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2018 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest 41 differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or dec rease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2021, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): average currency amount euro $ 22.3 swiss franc 7.8 japanese yen 3.9 british pound 1.5 canadian dollar 7.1 australian dollar 10.8 korean won 0.2 swedish krona 0.9 czech koruna 0.4 thai baht 0.2 taiwan dollars 0.7 south african rand 0.7 russian rubles 1.7 indian rupees - turkish lira - polish zloty 0.7 danish krone 1.2 norwegian krone 1.2 any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net assets, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, in legal entities with non-u.s. dollar functional currencies of $1,138.5 million at december 31, 2018, primarily in euros, japanese yen and australian dollars. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair value methodologies, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. 42 the majority of our debt is fixed-rate debt and therefore is not exposed to changes in interest rates. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of decembe r 31, 2018, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the principal amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense, net. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall e conomic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments and accounts receivable. we place our cash and cash equivalents and enter into derivative transactions with highly-rated financial institutions and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents or derivative instruments. our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries' national economic and healthcare systems. most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. to the extent the respective governments' ability to fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 43risk factors 14 risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors. in addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, including causing our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. the following list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect us in future periods. you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. if we fail to comply with the terms of the dpa that we entered into in january 2017, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs. on january 12, 2017, we resolved previously-disclosed fcpa matters involving biomet and certain of its subsidiaries. as part of the settlement, we entered into a dpa with the doj. a copy of the dpa is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this report. if we do not comply with the terms of the dpa, we could be subject to prosecution for violating the internal controls provisions of the fcpa and the conduct of biomet and its subsidiaries described in the dpa, which conduct pre-dated our acquisition of biomet, as well as any new or continuing violations. we could also be subject to exclusion by oig-hhs from participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration health programs. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our restructuring program may not be successful or we may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring initiatives. in december 2019, our board of directors approved, and we initiated, a new global restructuring program that includes a restructuring of key businesses to better align our resources with our growth strategies, achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, simplify our organizational structure, accelerate decision-making and allow us to invest in higher priority growth opportunities. restructuring initiatives involve complex plans and actions that may include, or result in, workforce reductions, global plant closures and/or consolidations, product portfolio rationalizations and asset impairments. additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiencies during transitional periods. restructuring initiatives present significant risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including higher than anticipated costs in implementing our restructuring program, as well as management distraction. for more information on our restructuring program, see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 we may not be able to effectively integrate acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions. our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: unforeseen difficulties in integrating personnel and sales forces, operations, manufacturing, logistics, research and development, information technology, communications, purchasing, accounting, marketing, administration and other systems and processes difficulties harmonizing and optimizing quality systems and operations diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience potential loss of key employees unforeseen risks and liabilities associated with businesses acquired, including any unknown vulnerabilities in acquired technology or compromises of acquired data and inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs. as a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. these risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. interruption of our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have manufacturing sites all over the world. in some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more of our plants. damage to one or more of our facilities from weather or natural disaster-related events, vulnerabilities in our technology, cyber-attacks against our information systems (such as ransomware attacks), or issues in our manufacturing arising from failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the qsr and good manufacturing practice requirements, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products or to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, for example, as a result of a failure to follow regulatory protocols and procedures, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due primarily to the need for regulatory approvals. as a result, we may experience loss of market share, which we may be unable to recapture, and harm to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in the supply of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products or the sterilization of our products by third-party suppliers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our products from third-party suppliers and we outsource some key manufacturing activities. certain of these materials and components and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources due to quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. in certain cases, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials or components or outsourced activities in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda regulations that require validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products and the complex nature of our and many of our suppliers' manufacturing processes. a reduction or interruption in the supply of materials or components used in manufacturing our products an inability to timely develop and validate alternative sources if required or a significant increase in the price of such materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, many of our products require sterilization prior to sale and we utilize a mix of internal resources and contract sterilizers to perform this service. to the extent we or our contract sterilizers are unable to sterilize our products, whether due to capacity, availability of materials for sterilization, regulatory or other constraints, including federal and state regulations on the use of ethylene oxide, we may be unable to transition to other contract sterilizers, 15 sterilizer locations or sterilization methods in a timely or cost effective manner or at all, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. moreover, we are subject to the sec's rule regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin and tungsten (or their ores) and gold), which are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. this rule could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products, which could adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. in addition, we are incurring additional costs to comply with this rule, including costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals and metals used in our products. we have a complex supply chain and we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals and metals used in our products through our due diligence procedures. as a result, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders. we are subject to costly and complex laws and governmental regulations relating to the development, design, product standards, packaging, advertising, promotion, postmarket surveillance, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our global regulatory environment is increasingly stringent, unpredictable and complex. the products we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the fda and numerous other supranational, national, federal, regional, state and local governmental authorities. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances to market these products can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs. both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations and other supranational, national, federal, regional, state and local requirements globally. compliance with these requirements, including the qsr, recordkeeping regulations, labeling and promotional requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the fda and other regulators, which may result in observations (such as on form 483), and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action, or other forms of enforcement. if the fda or another regulator were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, they could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of payment of such products, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications, refuse to provide certificates for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda or other regulators may also impose operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations at one or more facilities, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to our products, seizure of products and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. the fda or other regulators could also issue a corporate warning letter or a recidivist warning letter or negotiate the entry of a consent decree of permanent injunction with us, and/or recommend prosecution. any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2012, we received a warning letter from the fda citing concerns relating to certain processes pertaining to products manufactured at our ponce, puerto rico manufacturing facility. in august 2018, we received a warning letter from the fda related to observed non-conformities with current good manufacturing practice requirements of the qsr at our warsaw north campus manufacturing facility. as of february 14, 2020, these warning letters remained pending. until the violations are corrected, we may become subject to additional regulatory action by the fda as described above, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding these and other fda regulatory matters can be found in note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. governmental regulations outside the u.s. continue to become increasingly stringent and complex. in the eu, for example, the mdr will become effective in may 2020 and will include significant additional premarket and post- market requirements. complying with the requirements of this regulation requires us to incur significant expense. additionally, the availability of eu notified body services certified to the new requirements is limited, which may delay the marketing approval for some of our products under the mdr. any such delays, or any failure to meet the 16 requirements of the new regulation, could adversely impact our business in the eu and other regions that tie their product registrations to the eu requirements. our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the international standards organization. if we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business could be harmed. if we fail to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse or data privacy and security laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. the sales, marketing and pricing of products and relationships that medical products companies have with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny around the world. our industry is subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including the false claims act, the anti-kickback statute, the stark law, the physician payments sunshine act, the food, drug, and cosmetic act and similar laws and regulations in the u.s. and around the world. in addition, we are subject to various laws concerning anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters (including the fcpa), sales to countries or persons subject to economic sanctions and other matters affecting our international operations. violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the u.s., exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and veterans administration health programs. these laws are administered by, among others, the doj, the oig-hhs, the sec, the ofac, the bureau of industry and security of the u.s. department of commerce and state attorneys general. we are also subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal and protection of health-related and other personal information. the fda has issued guidance to which we may be subject concerning data security for medical devices. the fda and the dhs have also issued urgent safety communications regarding cybersecurity vulnerabilities of certain medical devices, which vulnerabilities may apply to some of our current or future devices. in addition, certain of our affiliates are subject to privacy, security and breach notification regulations promulgated under hipaa. hipaa governs the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by hipaa covered entities and their business associates. covered entities are health plans, health care clearinghouses and health care providers that engage in specific types of electronic transactions. a business associate is any person or entity (other than members of a covered entity's workforce) that performs a service on behalf of a covered entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information. hhs (through the office for civil rights) has direct enforcement authority against covered entities and business associates with regard to compliance with hipaa regulations. on december 12, 2018, the office for civil rights of hhs issued a request for information seeking input from the public on how the hipaa regulations could be modified to amend existing obligations relating to the processing of protected health information. we will monitor this process and assess the impact of changes to the hipaa regulations to our business. in addition to the fda guidance and hipaa regulations described above, a number of u.s. states have also enacted data privacy and security laws and regulations that govern the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, storage, disposal, and protection of personal information, such as social security numbers, medical and financial information and other information. these laws and regulations may be more restrictive and not preempted by u.s. federal laws. for example, several u.s. territories and all 50 states now have data breach laws that require timely notification to individuals, and at times regulators, the media or credit reporting agencies, if a company has experienced the unauthorized access or acquisition of personal information. other state laws include the ccpa, which was signed into law on june 28, 2018 and largely took effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa, among other things, contains new disclosure obligations for businesses that collect personal information about california residents and affords those individuals numerous rights relating to their personal information that may affect our ability to use personal information or share it with our business partners. regulations from the california attorney general have not been finalized, and it is expected that additional amendments to the ccpa will be introduced. meanwhile, over fifteen other states have considered privacy laws like the ccpa, and in october 2019, nevada enacted a similar but generally less restrictive privacy law. we will continue to monitor and assess the impact of these state laws, which may impose substantial penalties for violations, impose significant costs for investigations and compliance, allow private class-action litigation and carry significant potential liability for our business. outside of the u.s., data protection laws, including the gdpr and lgpd, also apply to some of our operations in the countries in which we provide services to our customers. legal requirements in these countries relating to the collection, storage, processing and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. the gdpr imposes, among other 17 things, data protection requirements that include strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze and transfer eu personal data, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances, and possible substantial fines for any violations (including possible fines for certain violations of up to the greater of 20 million euros or 4% of total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year). governmental authorities around the world have enacted similar types of legislative and regulatory requirements concerning data protection, and additional governments are considering similar legal frameworks. the interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change, and may require substantial costs to monitor and implement compliance with any additional requirements. failure to comply with u.s. and international data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (which could include substantial civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions and may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations, and the phase-out, replacement or unavailability of libor and/or other interest rate benchmarks could adversely affect our indebtedness. we incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with previous mergers and acquisitions. at december 31, 2019, our total indebtedness was $8.2 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion at december 31, 2014 . as of december 31, 2019, our debt service obligations, comprised of principal and interest (excluding leases and equipment notes), during the next 12 months are expected to be $1.7 billion. as a result of the increase in our debt, demands on our cash resources have increased. the increased level of debt could, among other things: require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired adversely affect the market price of our common stock and limit our ability to apply proceeds from a future offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. in addition, the interest rates applicable to certain of our debt obligations are based on a fluctuating rate of interest determined by reference to the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), euro interbank offered rate ( euribor ) and/or tokyo interbank offered rate ( tibor ). any increase in interest rates applicable to our debt obligations would increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. further, in july 2017, the u.k.'s financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. in response to concerns regarding the future of libor, the board of governors of the federal reserve system and the federal reserve bank of new york convened the alternative reference rates committee ( arrc ) to identify alternatives to libor. the arrc has recommended a benchmark replacement waterfall to assist issuers in continued capital market entry while safeguarding against libor's discontinuation. the initial steps in the arrc's recommended provision reference variations of the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ). at this time, it is not possible to predict whether sofr will attain market traction as a libor replacement. additionally, it is uncertain if libor will cease to exist after calendar year 2021, or whether additional reforms to libor may be enacted, or whether alternative reference rates will gain market acceptance as a replacement for libor. further, other central banks have convened working groups to determine replacements or reforms of other interest rate benchmarks, such as euribor, and it is expected, although not known, that a transition away from the use of certain of these other interest rate benchmarks will occur over the course of the next few years and alternative reference rates will be established. 18 certain of our debt obligations that are based on libor will mature before the end of 2021. however, the revolving credit agreement that we entered into on november 1, 2019 (the 2019 credit agreement ) has an initial maturity date of november 1, 2024. in anticipation of libor's phase out, the 2019 credit agreement provides for alternative base rates as well as a transition mechanism for selecting a benchmark replacement rate for libor, with such benchmark replacement rate to be mutually agreed with the general administrative agent and our lenders. there can be no assurance that we will be able to reach an agreement with our lenders on any such replacement benchmark before experiencing adverse effects due to changes in interest rates, if at all. we will continue to monitor the situation and address the potential reference rate changes in future debt obligations that we may incur. accordingly, the potential effect of the phase-out, replacement or unavailability of libor, or the unavailability of any other interest rate benchmark such as euribor or tibor, on our cost of capital cannot yet be determined. further, the use of an alternative base rate or a benchmark replacement rate as a basis for calculating interest with respect to any outstanding variable rate indebtedness could lead to an increase in the interest we pay and a corresponding increase in our costs of capital or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to effectively maintain or protect our information systems or data, including from data breaches, our business could be adversely affected. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. as a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. in addition, some of our products and services incorporate software or information technology that collects data regarding patients and patient therapy, and some products or software we provide to customers connect to our systems for maintenance and other purposes. we also have outsourced elements of our operations to third parties, and, as a result, we manage a number of third-party suppliers who may or could have access to our confidential information, including, but not limited to, intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information of patients, employees and customers (collectively confidential information ). our information systems, and those of third-party suppliers with whom we contract, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and the increasing need to protect patient and customer information. in addition, given their size and complexity, these systems could be vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third-party suppliers and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties attempting to gain unauthorized access to our products, systems or confidential information. like other large multi-national corporations, we have experienced instances of successful phishing attacks on our email systems and expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future. we also are subject to other cyber-attacks, including state-sponsored cyber-attacks, industrial espionage, insider threats, computer denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, ransomware and other malware, payment fraud or other cyber incidents. our incident response efforts, business continuity procedures and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: lose existing customers have difficulty attracting new customers have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing suffer outages or disruptions in our operations or supply chain have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed incur increased operating expenses be subject to issues with product functionality that may result in a loss of data, risk to patient safety, field actions and/or product recalls incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach or 19 suffer other adverse consequences. while we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our activities related to consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and implementing new systems will be successful. we will continue to dedicate significant resources to protect against unauthorized access to our systems and work with government authorities to detect and reduce the risk of future cyber incidents however, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated, frequent and adaptive. therefore, despite our efforts, we cannot assure that cyber-attacks or data breaches will not occur or that systems issues will not arise in the future. any significant breakdown, intrusion, breach, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including biological therapies. to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies and improve existing products and technologies. competition is primarily on the basis of: technology innovation quality reputation customer service and pricing. in markets outside of the u.s., other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems complex regulatory environments and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies undertake more extensive marketing campaigns adopt more aggressive pricing policies or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. if we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. our marketing success in the u.s. and abroad depends significantly upon our agents' and distributors' sales and service expertise in the marketplace. many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of the agents' detailed knowledge of products and instruments. a loss of a significant number of our agents could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 20 if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs changing demographics slowing industry growth rates declines in the musculoskeletal implant market the introduction of new products and technologies evolving surgical philosophies and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. if that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs commercialize new products in a timely manner manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time differentiate our offerings from competitors' offerings achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative recovery and lower-cost procedures innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques and provide adequate medical education relating to new products. in addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice the need for regulatory clearance and uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement. moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. in addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. if third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. we sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. these third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a product or service used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and products. 21 in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. if third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our products may decline, or we may experience increased pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform in our international markets. if key participants in government healthcare systems reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. the ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization's affiliated hospitals and other members. if we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. we conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the u.s., which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. we sell our products in more than 100 countries and derived approximately 40 percent of our net sales in 2019 from outside the u.s. we intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, including in emerging markets, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs changes in foreign regulatory requirements, such as more stringent requirements for regulatory clearance of products differing local product preferences and product requirements fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the u.s. trade protection measures, import or export requirements, new or increased tariffs, trade embargoes and sanctions and other trade barriers, which may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and may increase our operating costs foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the u.s. complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws extraterritorial effects of u.s. laws such as the fcpa effects of foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the uk bribery act difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations labor force instability potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws and political, social and economic instability and uncertainty, including sovereign debt issues. violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. 22 we have significant global sales and operations and face risks related to health epidemics that could impact our sales and operating results. our business could be adversely affected by the effects of a widespread outbreak of contagious disease, including the recent outbreak of respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus first identified in wuhan, hubei province, china . any outbreak of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments, could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. these could include disruptions or restrictions on our ability to travel or to distribute our products, as well as temporary closures of our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers or customers, the deferral of elective procedures in impacted countries or the temporary suspension of operations by us or our suppliers or customers. any disruption of our operations, or those of our suppliers or customers, would likely impact our sales and operating results. in addition, a significant outbreak of contagious diseases in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our products and likely impact our operating results. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 was signed into law on december 22, 2017 (the 2017 tax act ), with significant changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system, including a federal corporate income tax rate reduction from 35 percent to 21 percent, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, and the transition of u.s. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. our tax expense and cash flow could be impacted in the event of adverse future regulatory guidance provided by the u.s. treasury clarifying certain aspects of the 2017 tax act or other changes to the u.s. corporate income tax system. other changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions where we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense. for example, changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the organisation for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. these changes, as adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks. a substantial portion of our foreign revenues is generated in europe and japan. the u.s. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. significant increases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro, the japanese yen, the swiss franc or other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective or may create additional financial obligations for us. further, if the counterparties to the derivative financial instrument transactions fail to honor their obligations due to financial distress or otherwise, we would be exposed to potential losses or the inability to recover anticipated gains from those transactions. pending and future product liability claims and litigation could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and impair our reputation. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. in the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. as discussed further in 23 note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, we are defending product liability lawsuits relating to the durom acetabular component ( durom cup ), certain products within the m/l taper and m/l taper with kinectiv technology hip stems and versys femoral head implants, and the m2a-magnum tm hip system. we are also currently defending a number of other product liability lawsuits and claims related to various other products. any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, can be costly to defend. product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. we are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights, and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others. claims of intellectual property infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights are commonplace in our industry and are frequently time consuming and costly. at any given time, we may be involved as either plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent and other intellectual property litigation, such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. as discussed further in note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, in 2015 we paid a compensatory damages award of approximately $90 million and in march 2019 we paid approximately $168 million related to an award of treble damages and attorneys' fees in a patent infringement lawsuit. our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, processes, methodologies and information. we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and nondisclosure, license, assignment and confidentiality arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights, as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose assets we license. however, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or theft of our intellectual property. further, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors, and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. we also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information. in addition, intellectual property laws differ in various jurisdictions in which we operate and are subject to change at any time, which could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. in particular, a portion of our revenues is derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. we may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. to prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation or other proceedings and we may not ultimately prevail. any failure to establish, maintain or protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we are involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property and product liability claims and lawsuits, we are involved in various commercial and securities litigation and claims and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. for example, as discussed further in note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, we are defending a purported class action lawsuit, shah v. zimmer biomet holdings, inc. et al., filed against us, certain of our current and former officers, certain current and former members of our board of directors, and certain former stockholders of ours who sold shares of our common stock in secondary public offerings in 2016, alleging that we and other defendants violated federal securities laws by making materially false and/or misleading statements and/or omissions about our compliance with fda regulations and our ability to continue to accelerate our organic revenue growth rate in the second half of 2016. there have also been four shareholder derivative actions filed purportedly on our behalf against certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain former stockholders of ours who sold shares of our common stock in secondary public offerings in 2016, alleging breaches of fiduciary duties 24 and insider trading, based on substantially the same factual allegations as shah. although we believe there are substantial defenses in these matters, litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. future material impairments in the carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results. goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. at december 31, 2019, we had $9.6 billion in goodwill and $7.3 billion of intangible assets. the goodwill results from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. we assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable. as discussed further in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $975.9 million in 2018. if the operating performance at one or more of our reporting units falls significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, if market conditions or future cash flow estimates for one or more of our businesses decline, or as a result of restructuring initiatives pursuant to which we reorganize our reporting units, we could be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges. any write-off of a material portion of our goodwill or unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. developments relating to the uk's exit from the eu could adversely affect us. the uk held a referendum in june 2016 in which voters chose to leave the eu, commonly referred to as brexit . following a protracted period of negotiation, the uk ceased to be a member of the eu on january 31, 2020, after the ratification and approval of a withdrawal agreement by the eu and the uk. the withdrawal agreement provides for a transition period until december 31, 2020 (the transition period ), during which the terms of the future trading relationship between the eu and the uk will be negotiated. throughout the transition period, the legal and regulatory framework as between the uk and the eu will remain the same. brexit and the perceptions as to its potential impact have and may continue to adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in europe and globally and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets both during and after the transition period. brexit could also have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and people between the uk and the eu through the imposition of tariffs, custom inspections, and/or migration restrictions. the future relationship for medical products regulation and trade between the uk and the eu is currently uncertain and any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of brexit could result in significant expense and take significant time to complete. brexit could also result in the uk or the eu significantly altering its regulations affecting the clearance and approval of medical products. in addition, as a result of brexit, other european countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the eu. if there is no agreed upon long-term trading arrangement by the end of the transition period (a so-called hard brexit ), it would likely have a significant adverse impact on labor and trade and create significant short-term currency volatility. given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which we will be affected by brexit is uncertain. any of the potential negative effects of brexit could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, our restated by-laws and the delaware general corporation law may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. 25 these provisions provide for, among other things: the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock without further stockholder action advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings and the prohibition on engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the time at which a person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met, as set forth in section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. these anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. as a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. our restated by-laws designate certain delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. our restated by-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court located within the state of delaware (or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the district of delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law or our restated certificate of incorporation or our restated by-laws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. this choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in euros, swiss francs, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone. we manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. to reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. these forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. for contracts outstanding at december 31, 2019, we had obligations to purchase u.s. dollars and sell euros, japanese yen, british pounds, canadian dollars, australian dollars, korean won, swedish krona, czech koruna, thai baht, taiwan dollars, south african rand, russian rubles, indian rupees, turkish lira, polish zloty, danish krone, and norwegian krone and purchase swiss francs and sell u.s. dollars at set maturity dates ranging from january 2020 through june 2022. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase u.s. dollars at december 31, 2019 were $1,496.3 million. the notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase swiss francs at december 31, 2019 were $276.0 million. the weighted average contract rates outstanding at december 31, 2019 were euro:usd 1.21, usd:swiss franc 0.94, usd:japanese yen 104.34, british pound:usd 1.37, usd:canadian dollar 1.30, australian dollar:usd 0.73, usd:korean won 1,138, usd:swedish krona 8.80, usd:czech koruna 22.11, usd:thai baht 31.17, usd:taiwan dollar 29.60, usd:south african rand 15.40, usd:russian ruble 68.81, usd:indian ruppee 74.26, usd:polish zloty 3.72, usd:danish krone 6.15, and usd:norwegian krone 8.36. 43 we maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments be the same as hedged forecasted transactions. on this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. as part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. a sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding at december 31, 2019 indicated that, if the u.s. dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the various currencies, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through june 2022, depending on the direction of the change, by the following average approximate amounts (in millions): average currency amount euro $ 43.5 swiss franc 28.5 japanese yen 54.0 british pound 1.6 canadian dollar 14.3 australian dollar 13.3 korean won 2.6 swedish krona 2.4 czech koruna 1.7 thai baht 0.9 taiwan dollars 4.1 south african rand 1.1 russian rubles 2.3 indian rupees 0.8 polish zloty 3.4 danish krone 3.0 norwegian krone 1.8 any change in the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. consequently, foreign currency exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities and transactions being hedged. we had net assets, excluding goodwill and intangible assets, in legal entities with non-u.s. dollar functional currencies of $1,193.5 million at december 31, 2019, primarily in euros, japanese yen and australian dollars. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency. as a result, foreign currency remeasurement gains/losses recognized in earnings are generally offset with gains/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair value methodologies, see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. 44 commodity price risk we purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. we enter into supply contracts generally with terms of 12 to 24 months, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. as part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. a 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. we manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. we invest our cash and cash equivalents primarily in highly-rated corporate commercial paper and bank deposits. the primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation. currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. the majority of our debt is fixed-rate debt and therefore is not exposed to changes in interest rates. based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of december 31, 2019, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the principal amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense, net. this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. credit risk financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments and accounts receivable. we place our cash and cash equivalents and enter into derivative transactions with highly-rated financial institutions and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. we believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and cash equivalents or derivative instruments. our concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. substantially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the u.s. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. our ability to collect accounts receivable in some countries depends in part upon the financial stability of these hospital and healthcare sectors and the respective countries' national economic and healthcare systems. most notably, in europe healthcare is typically sponsored by the government. since we sell products to public hospitals in those countries, we are indirectly exposed to government budget constraints. to the extent the respective governments' ability to fund their public hospital programs deteriorates, we may have to record significant bad debt expenses in the future. while we are exposed to risks from the broader healthcare industry in europe and around the world, there is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer. exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. 45