risk factors 11 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. we are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the declines in the pc market and home printing. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in emerging markets and europe, and certain countries and businesses in asia. we may experience delays 11 table of contents in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given the markets in which we compete, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the ongoing integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer. our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. to successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 table of contents the process of developing new high-technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, to offset industry declines in some of our businesses, we must successfully grow in adjacencies such as copier printers, maintain our strong position in graphics, develop and introduce 3d printers and execute on our strategy to grow commercial mobility by providing specialized products and services to address the needs of our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or acquire and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change. even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones. our competitors may also create products that replace ours. as a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. if we are unable to determine the cause or find an appropriate solution to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. in addition, the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as brexit ) caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. global economic events and uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate and currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the british pound or the weakness of the japanese yen, could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. 13 table of contents from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased net revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa region, china and certain other high-growth markets. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. brexit and the uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's exit from the european union has also begun to negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions that could continue for the foreseeable future. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses. the net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our net revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue. in addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of 14 table of contents variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, each of which is described below. 15 table of contents component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. we represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectability risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. we also rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs and workstations, and we rely on amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any 16 table of contents unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting net revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be cancelled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. sales outside the united states made up approximately 63% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2016. in addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from brexit; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the united states or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; 17 table of contents local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and oems; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; stringent privacy and data protection policies in some foreign countries; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, business combination and investment transactions ). risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties or market trends. certain prior business combination and investment transactions entered into by hewlett-packard company resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. 18 table of contents we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. any announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. such regulatory and governmental approvals may be required in diverse jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions with opaque regulatory frameworks, and any delays in the timing of such approvals could materially delay the transaction or prevent it from closing. for example, our acquisition of samsung's printer business is subject to regulatory review in numerous jurisdictions, including south korea and the european union, as well as customary closing conditions. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus; persuading both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business not to defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; 19 table of contents persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we announced a restructuring plan in october 2016 to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs. implementation of the restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our october 2016 restructuring plan, see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property ( ip ) rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. for example, our enforcement of inkjet printer supplies ip against infringers may be successfully challenged or our ip may be successfully circumvented. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties . some of our business and some of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. third-party components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license to us at all, or refuse to license to us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. 20 table of contents third-party claims of intellectual property infringement are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as us and our customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. further, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from us levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. the allocation of intellectual property rights between hewlett packard enterprise and hp as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hewlett-packard company allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp will retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. there is a risk that the joint brand holding structure may impair the enforcement of hp's trademark rights against third parties that infringe them. furthermore, as a result of this shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise could also adversely affect the reputation of hp. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, we no longer own intellectual property allocated to hewlett packard enterprise and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement, patent licensing and cross-licensing, our ability to sell our products or services, our competitive position in the industry and our ability to enter new product markets. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services business properly. the risks that accompany our services business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the success of our services business is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. we may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their selection of a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. in addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients. as a result of business downturns or for other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced business from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for those services. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services. in addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able to fully recover our investments in such circumstances. the pricing and other terms of some of our service agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or 21 table of contents unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the profit margin of our services business. some of our service agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements may involve the development and deployment of new technologies. varying degrees of performance risk exist in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could harm the financial performance of our services business. if we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our financial performance could suffer. for example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement of our employees could suffer. if that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. if we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. in addition, if we have more employees than we need with certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, hewlett-packard company has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. our stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in net revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or our financial outlook and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by our competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of our share repurchases. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. for these reasons, investors should 22 table of contents not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. fitch ratings, moody's investor service and standard &amp; poor's rating services downgraded hewlett-packard company's ratings in the past. past downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this report. in addition, as discussed in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with these intercompany transactions or other matters, and may assess additional taxes or adjust taxable income on our tax returns as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, we cannot assure you that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws. in particular, if circumstances change such that we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, future income tax expense may differ significantly from historical amounts and could materially adversely affect our results. in addition, various tax legislation has been introduced or is being considered that could significantly impact our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any 23 table of contents failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. 24 table of contents our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our stock. risks related to the separation the separation of hewlett-packard company into two independent publicly traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. on november 1, 2015, we completed the separation of our enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses from our personal systems and printing businesses. the process of completing the separation involved significant costs and expenses. uncertainty related to the separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in our existing business relationships, or cause them to consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. these disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. as an independent publicly traded company we are a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we continue to review our acquisitions, dispositions, and other transactions, including those related to the separation, in light of the economic and legislative environment. 25 table of contents the separation could result in substantial tax liability. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation qualified, for both the company and our stockholders, as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(d)(1)(d) and 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in addition, we obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ) and opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the separation for the company and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinions of outside counsel and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel and the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and irs private letter ruling may be affected. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the separation, including non-u.s. tax expenses resulting from the separation in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separation, which may be material. if the separation or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we or hewlett packard enterprise may fail to perform under the transaction agreements executed as part of the separation. in connection with the separation, we and hewlett packard enterprise entered into several agreements, including among others a transition services agreement, a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a real estate matters agreement, a commercial agreement and an it service agreement. the transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a transition period after the separation. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the commercial agreement establishes a bilateral relationship between hewlett packard enterprise and us for the purchase and sale of commercially available products and services for internal use, incorporation and bundling in oem products and services, resale to customers and use in the provision of managed services to customers, as well as joint customer pursuits and joint development activities. the it service agreement provides for the performance by one of hewlett packard enterprise's subsidiaries of certain application development and maintenance and it infrastructure services for us. we will rely on hewlett packard enterprise to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hewlett packard enterprise is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 44 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal year 2016 were the euro, chinese yuan renminbi, the british pound and the indian rupee. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and at times, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses for continuing operations as of october 31, 2016 and 2015 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2016 and 2015 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $41 million and $54 million for continuing operations at october 31, 2016 and october 31, 2015 , respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. 50 table of contents we have performed sensitivity analyses for continuing operations as of october 31, 2016 and 2015 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2016 and 2015 . the sensitivity analyses for continuing operations indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would have resulted in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investments, net of interest rate swaps, of $51 million at october 31, 2016 and $67 million at october 31, 2015 . 51 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. 11 table of contents because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. our business faces many challenges we must address. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in emerging markets and europe, and certain countries and businesses in asia. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given the markets in which we compete, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the ongoing integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price 12 table of contents pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer. our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. to successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, to offset industry declines in some of our businesses, we must successfully grow in adjacencies such as copier printers, maintain our strong position in graphics, develop and introduce 3d printers and execute on our strategy to grow commercial mobility by providing specialized products and services to address the needs of our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or acquire and appropriately protect intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change. even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones. our competitors may also create products that replace ours. as a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. if we are unable to determine the cause or find an appropriate solution to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' 13 table of contents expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. in addition, the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as brexit ) caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. global economic events and uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate and currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the british pound or the weakness of the japanese yen, could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased net revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, until recently we experienced the impacts of macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa region, china and certain other high-growth markets, and we may experience similar impacts in these or other regions in the future. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. the continuing uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's exit from the european union may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses. 14 table of contents the net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our net revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue. in addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. 15 table of contents other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. we represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectability risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. working conditions and materials sourcing. we work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that working conditions in our supply chain must be safe, that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way. brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier's improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our supplier code of conduct, general specification for the environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for hp brand paper and product packaging) and ghg emissions, water and waste data. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. we also rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs and workstations, and we rely on amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other 16 table of contents products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, such as those listed above or other economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting net revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 17 table of contents due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. approximately 63% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2017 came from outside the united states. in addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from brexit; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the united states or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and oems; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; stringent privacy and data protection policies in some foreign countries; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, business combination and investment transactions ). risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties or market trends. certain prior business combination and investment transactions entered into by hewlett-packard company resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including 18 table of contents those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. any announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. such regulatory and governmental approvals may be required in diverse jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions with opaque regulatory frameworks, and any delays in the timing of such approvals could materially delay the transaction or prevent it from closing. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which (such as our acquisition of samsung's printer business) may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; 19 table of contents convincing both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus; persuading both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business not to defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we announced a restructuring plan in october 2016 to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs. implementation of the restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our october 2016 restructuring plan, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property ( ip ) rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. for example, our enforcement of inkjet printer supplies ip against infringers may be successfully challenged or our ip may be successfully circumvented. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties . some of our business and some of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. third-party components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a 20 table of contents consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license to us at all, or refuse to license to us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as us and our customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. further, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from us levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. the allocation of intellectual property rights between hewlett packard enterprise and hp as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hewlett-packard company allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp will retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. there is a risk that the joint brand holding structure may impair the enforcement of hp's trademark rights against third parties that infringe them. furthermore, as a result of this shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise could also adversely affect the reputation of hp. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, we no longer own intellectual property allocated to hewlett packard enterprise and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement, patent licensing and cross-licensing, our ability to sell our products or services, our competitive position in the industry and our ability to enter new product markets. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services businesses properly. the risks that accompany our services businesses differ from those of our other businesses. for example, the success of our services business depends to a significant degree on attracting clients to our services, retaining these clients and maintaining or increasing the level of revenues from these clients. our standard services agreements are generally renewable at a customer's option and/or subject to cancellation rights, with penalties for early termination. we may not be able to retain or renew services contracts with our clients, or our clients may reduce the scope of the services they contract for. factors that may influence contract termination, non-renewal or reduction include business downturns, dissatisfaction with our services or 21 table of contents products attached to services we provide, our retirement or lack of support for our services, our clients selecting alternative technologies to replace us, the cost of our services as compared to the cost of services offered by our competitors, general market conditions or other reasons. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from lost clients or reductions in services. while our services agreements typically include penalties for early termination, these penalties may not fully cover our investments in these businesses in the event a client terminates a services agreement early or reduces the scope of the agreement. our clients could also delay or terminate implementations or use of our services, or choose not to invest in additional services from us in the future. in addition, the pricing and other terms of some of our services agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the product margin of our services business. as a result, we may not generate the revenues we may have anticipated from our services businesses within the timelines anticipated, if at all. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, hewlett-packard company has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. our stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in net revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or our financial outlook and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by our competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of our share repurchases. general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. prior to the separation, fitch ratings, moody's investor service and standard &amp; poor's rating services had downgraded hewlett-packard company's ratings. past 22 table of contents downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this report. in addition, as discussed in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with these intercompany transactions or other matters, and may assess additional taxes or adjust taxable income on our tax returns as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, we cannot assure you that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws. in particular, if circumstances change such that we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, future income tax expense may differ significantly from historical amounts and could materially adversely affect our results. in addition, various tax legislation has been introduced or is being considered, including potential tax reform within the united states, that could significantly impact our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. for example, the organization for economic cooperation and development (the oecd ) has recently recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles. if countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the oecd guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, be able to hire, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 23 table of contents system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network security, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. while we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to protect against cyber and other security problems, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. in the past, we have experienced data security incidents resulting from unauthorized use of our systems, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. 24 table of contents our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our stock. risks related to the separation the separation of hewlett-packard company into two independent publicly traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. on november 1, 2015, we completed the separation of our enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses from our personal systems and printing businesses. the process of completing the separation involved significant costs and expenses. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. as an independent publicly traded company we are a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we continue to review our acquisitions, dispositions, and other transactions, including those related to the separation, in light of the economic and legislative environment. 25 table of contents the separation could result in substantial tax liability. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation qualified, for both the company and our stockholders, as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(d)(1)(d) and 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in addition, we obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ) and opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the separation for the company and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinions of outside counsel and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel and the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and irs private letter ruling may be affected. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the separation or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we or hewlett packard enterprise may fail to perform under the transaction agreements executed as part of the separation. in connection with the separation, we and hewlett packard enterprise entered into several agreements, including among others a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a real estate matters agreement and a commercial agreement. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. hewlett packard enterprise has spun off or separated certain of its businesses since the separation, and some of its obligations under these and other agreements have transferred to the successor entities. we will rely on hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities has separated are unable to satisfy their obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 44 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal year 2017 were the euro, chinese yuan renminbi, the british pound and the indian rupee. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and at times, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent in cost of sales. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses for continuing operations as of october 31, 2017 and 2016 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2017 and 2016 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $64 million and $41 million at october 31, 2017 and october 31, 2016 , respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2017 and 2016 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2017 and 2016 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would have resulted in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investments, net of interest rate swaps, of $61 million at october 31, 2017 and $51 million at october 31, 2016 . 51 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. 11 table of contents because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. our business faces many challenges we must address. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in emerging markets and europe, and certain countries and businesses in asia. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given the markets in which we compete, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the ongoing integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price 12 table of contents pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer. our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. to successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, to offset industry declines in some of our businesses, we must successfully grow in adjacencies such as copier printers, maintain our strong position in graphics, develop and introduce 3d printers and execute on our strategy to grow commercial mobility by providing specialized products and services to address the needs of our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or acquire and appropriately protect intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change. even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones. our competitors may also create products that replace ours. as a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. if we are unable to determine the cause or find an appropriate solution to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' 13 table of contents expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. in addition, the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as brexit ) caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. global economic events and uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate and currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the british pound or the weakness of the japanese yen, could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased net revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, until recently we experienced the impacts of macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa region, china and certain other high-growth markets, and we may experience similar impacts in these or other regions in the future. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. the continuing uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's exit from the european union may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses. 14 table of contents the net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our net revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue. in addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. 15 table of contents other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. we represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectability risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. working conditions and materials sourcing. we work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that working conditions in our supply chain must be safe, that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way. brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier's improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our supplier code of conduct, general specification for the environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for hp brand paper and product packaging) and ghg emissions, water and waste data. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. we also rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs and workstations, and we rely on amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other 16 table of contents products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, such as those listed above or other economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting net revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 17 table of contents due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. approximately 63% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2017 came from outside the united states. in addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from brexit; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the united states or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and oems; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; stringent privacy and data protection policies in some foreign countries; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, business combination and investment transactions ). risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties or market trends. certain prior business combination and investment transactions entered into by hewlett-packard company resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including 18 table of contents those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. any announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. such regulatory and governmental approvals may be required in diverse jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions with opaque regulatory frameworks, and any delays in the timing of such approvals could materially delay the transaction or prevent it from closing. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which (such as our acquisition of samsung's printer business) may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; 19 table of contents convincing both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus; persuading both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business not to defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we announced a restructuring plan in october 2016 to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs. implementation of the restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our october 2016 restructuring plan, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property ( ip ) rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. for example, our enforcement of inkjet printer supplies ip against infringers may be successfully challenged or our ip may be successfully circumvented. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties . some of our business and some of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. third-party components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a 20 table of contents consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license to us at all, or refuse to license to us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as us and our customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. further, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from us levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. the allocation of intellectual property rights between hewlett packard enterprise and hp as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hewlett-packard company allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp will retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. there is a risk that the joint brand holding structure may impair the enforcement of hp's trademark rights against third parties that infringe them. furthermore, as a result of this shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise could also adversely affect the reputation of hp. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, we no longer own intellectual property allocated to hewlett packard enterprise and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement, patent licensing and cross-licensing, our ability to sell our products or services, our competitive position in the industry and our ability to enter new product markets. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services businesses properly. the risks that accompany our services businesses differ from those of our other businesses. for example, the success of our services business depends to a significant degree on attracting clients to our services, retaining these clients and maintaining or increasing the level of revenues from these clients. our standard services agreements are generally renewable at a customer's option and/or subject to cancellation rights, with penalties for early termination. we may not be able to retain or renew services contracts with our clients, or our clients may reduce the scope of the services they contract for. factors that may influence contract termination, non-renewal or reduction include business downturns, dissatisfaction with our services or 21 table of contents products attached to services we provide, our retirement or lack of support for our services, our clients selecting alternative technologies to replace us, the cost of our services as compared to the cost of services offered by our competitors, general market conditions or other reasons. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from lost clients or reductions in services. while our services agreements typically include penalties for early termination, these penalties may not fully cover our investments in these businesses in the event a client terminates a services agreement early or reduces the scope of the agreement. our clients could also delay or terminate implementations or use of our services, or choose not to invest in additional services from us in the future. in addition, the pricing and other terms of some of our services agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the product margin of our services business. as a result, we may not generate the revenues we may have anticipated from our services businesses within the timelines anticipated, if at all. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, hewlett-packard company has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. our stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in net revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or our financial outlook and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by our competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of our share repurchases. general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. prior to the separation, fitch ratings, moody's investor service and standard &amp; poor's rating services had downgraded hewlett-packard company's ratings. past 22 table of contents downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this report. in addition, as discussed in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with these intercompany transactions or other matters, and may assess additional taxes or adjust taxable income on our tax returns as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, we cannot assure you that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws. in particular, if circumstances change such that we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, future income tax expense may differ significantly from historical amounts and could materially adversely affect our results. in addition, various tax legislation has been introduced or is being considered, including potential tax reform within the united states, that could significantly impact our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. for example, the organization for economic cooperation and development (the oecd ) has recently recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles. if countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the oecd guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, be able to hire, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 23 table of contents system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network security, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. while we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to protect against cyber and other security problems, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. in the past, we have experienced data security incidents resulting from unauthorized use of our systems, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. 24 table of contents our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our stock. risks related to the separation the separation of hewlett-packard company into two independent publicly traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. on november 1, 2015, we completed the separation of our enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses from our personal systems and printing businesses. the process of completing the separation involved significant costs and expenses. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. as an independent publicly traded company we are a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we continue to review our acquisitions, dispositions, and other transactions, including those related to the separation, in light of the economic and legislative environment. 25 table of contents the separation could result in substantial tax liability. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation qualified, for both the company and our stockholders, as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(d)(1)(d) and 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in addition, we obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ) and opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the separation for the company and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinions of outside counsel and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel and the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and irs private letter ruling may be affected. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the separation or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we or hewlett packard enterprise may fail to perform under the transaction agreements executed as part of the separation. in connection with the separation, we and hewlett packard enterprise entered into several agreements, including among others a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a real estate matters agreement and a commercial agreement. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. hewlett packard enterprise has spun off or separated certain of its businesses since the separation, and some of its obligations under these and other agreements have transferred to the successor entities. we will rely on hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities has separated are unable to satisfy their obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 44 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal year 2017 were the euro, chinese yuan renminbi, the british pound and the indian rupee. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and at times, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent in cost of sales. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses for continuing operations as of october 31, 2017 and 2016 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2017 and 2016 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $64 million and $41 million at october 31, 2017 and october 31, 2016 , respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2017 and 2016 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2017 and 2016 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would have resulted in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investments, net of interest rate swaps, of $61 million at october 31, 2017 and $51 million at october 31, 2016 . 51 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. our business faces many challenges we must address. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we have in the recent past and may again in the future face macroeconomic challenges, including weakness in certain geographic regions and global political developments that impact international trade, such as trade disputes and increased tariffs. we may also be vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address such challenges given the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate. if we experience these challenges and do not succeed in our efforts to mitigate them, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services. 11 companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is a negative reception to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. financial performance could also decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, the refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer. our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. to successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, to offset industry declines in some of our businesses, our strategy is to successfully grow in adjacencies such as copier printers, maintain our strong position in graphics, scale our 3d printing, managed print services and device as a service businesses and execute on our personal systems growth strategy by providing specialized products and services that address the needs of our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or acquire and appropriately protect intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change. even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones. our competitors may also create products that replace ours. as a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. 12 if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. in the course of conducting our business, we must address quality and security issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, and unsatisfactory performance or malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. our business is also exposed to the risk of defects in third-party components included in our products, including security vulnerabilities, as illustrated by the recent spectre and meltdown side-channel exploit threats. in order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be completely effective in controlling or detecting all quality and security issues or errors, particularly with respect to defects or security vulnerabilities in components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause or find an effective solution to address quality and security issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality and security issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality and security issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. in the event of security vulnerabilities or other issues with third-party components, we may have to rely on third parties to provide mitigation techniques such as firmware updates. furthermore, mitigation techniques for vulnerabilities in third-party components may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability and data loss or corruption. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality and security issues, including those resulting from defects or security vulnerabilities in third-party components, can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. global economic events, including trade disputes, economic sanctions and emerging market volatility, and associated uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate, which may contribute to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as brexit ) caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. continued uncertainty regarding brexit may result in future exchange rate volatility. in addition, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the british pound or the weakness of the japanese yen, could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased net revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we have in the past experienced the impacts of macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions and markets, and we may experience similar impacts in the future. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect 13 macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. political developments impacting international trade, including continued uncertainty surrounding brexit, trade disputes and increased tariffs, particularly between the united states and china, may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses. the net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue, which in turn depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue. in addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may also have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively 14 affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. third-party suppliers may have limited financial resources to withstand challenging business conditions, particularly as a result of increased interest rates or emerging market volatility, and our business could be negatively impacted if key suppliers are forced to cease or limit their operations. due to the international nature of our third-party supplier network, our financial results may also be negatively impacted by increased trade barriers and tariffs. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. we represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or 15 components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectability risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. working conditions and materials sourcing. we work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way. brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier's improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our supplier code of conduct, general specification for the environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for hp brand paper and product packaging) and ghg emissions, water and waste data. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. we also rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs and workstations, and we rely on amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, such as those listed above or other economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being 16 consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting net revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest by revenues. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. approximately 65% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2018 came from outside the united states. in addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from brexit; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries, including the impact of recently imposed tariffs between the united states and china on a wide variety of products; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the united states or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and oems; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; stringent privacy and data protection policies, such as the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ); changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. 17 the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, business combination and investment transactions ). risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties or market trends. certain prior business combination and investment transactions resulted, and in the future any such transactions may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failures to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable than anticipated or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination and investment transaction is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. any announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill, tangible or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, 18 we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include impairment charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. such regulatory and governmental approvals may be required in diverse jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions with opaque regulatory frameworks, and any delays in the timing of such approvals could materially delay the transaction or prevent it from closing. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus; persuading both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business not to defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we announced a restructuring plan in october 2016, which we amended in may 2018, to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs. implementation of the restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to obtain the estimated workforce reductions within the projected timing or at all, or the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our october 2016 restructuring plan, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. 19 our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property ( ip ) laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain ip rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our ip rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such ip rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. for example, our enforcement of our ip rights of our inkjet printer supplies against infringers may be successfully challenged or our ip rights may be successfully circumvented. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on ip and technology licensed from third parties . some of our business and some of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our ip. third-party components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our ip without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our ip rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license to us at all, or refuse to license to us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these ip rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of ip infringement are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their ip rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase ip assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as us and our customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed ip at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that ip claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of ip infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. additionally, claims of ip infringement may adversely impact our brand and reputation and imperil new and existing customer relationships. further, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from us levies upon it equipment (such as pcs, multifunction devices and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could 20 be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. the allocation of ip rights between hewlett packard enterprise and hp as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain ip rights following the separation, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain ip rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hewlett-packard company allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp the ip assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of ip in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp will retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. there is a risk that the joint brand holding structure may impair the enforcement of hp's trademark rights against third parties that infringe them. furthermore, as a result of this shared use of the legacy branding, there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise could also adversely affect the reputation of hp. in addition, as a result of the allocation of ip as part of the separation, we no longer own ip allocated to hewlett packard enterprise and our resulting ip ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement, patent licensing and cross-licensing, our ability to sell our products or services, our competitive position in the industry and our ability to enter new product markets. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services businesses properly. the risks that accompany our services businesses differ from those of our other businesses. for example, the success of our services business depends to a significant degree on attracting clients to our services, retaining these clients and maintaining or increasing the level of revenues from these clients. our standard services agreements are generally renewable at a customer's option and/or subject to cancellation rights, with penalties for early termination. we may not be able to retain or renew services contracts with our clients, or our clients may reduce the scope of the services they contract for. factors that may influence contract termination, non-renewal or reduction include business downturns, dissatisfaction with our services or products attached to services we provide, our retirement or lack of support for our services, our clients selecting alternative technologies to replace us, the cost of our services as compared to the cost of services offered by our competitors, general market conditions or other reasons. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from lost clients or reductions in services. while our services agreements typically include penalties for early termination, these penalties may not fully cover our investments in these businesses in the event a client terminates a services agreement early or reduces the scope of the agreement. our clients could also delay or terminate implementations or use of our services or choose not to invest in additional services from us in the future. in addition, the pricing and other terms of some of our services agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the product margin of our services business. as a result, we may not generate the revenues we may have anticipated from our services businesses within the timelines anticipated, if at all. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, hewlett-packard company has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. 21 our stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in net revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or our financial outlook and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by our competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of our share repurchases. general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. past downgrades of hewlett-packard company's ratings increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities and reduced market capacity for our commercial paper. future downgrades could have the same effects, and could also require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this report. in addition, as discussed in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with these intercompany transactions or other matters, and may assess additional taxes or adjust taxable income on our tax returns as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, we cannot assure you that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, uncertainties related to the interpretation of the tcja could materially impact our tax obligations and effective tax rate, as well as our business strategy and tax planning. 22 our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws. in addition, various tax legislation has been introduced or is being considered that could significantly impact our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. for example, the organization for economic cooperation and development (the oecd ) has recently recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles. if countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the oecd guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, be able to hire, retain, train, motivate, develop, transition and deploy qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks, system outages and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network security, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. while we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to protect against cyber and other security problems, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. in the past, we have experienced data security incidents resulting from unauthorized use of our systems or those of third parties, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business, and result in government enforcement actions and litigation and potential liability for us. for example, the gdpr imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual turnover and/or 20 million. we also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. 23 portions of our it infrastructure, including portions provided by third parties, also may experience interruptions, outages, delays or cessations of service or may produce errors in connection with systems integrations, migration work or other causes from time to time. any such events could result in business disruptions and the process of remediating them could be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive than planned. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. 24 any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our stock. risks related to the separation the separation could result in substantial tax liability. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation qualified, for both the company and our stockholders, as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(d)(1)(d) and 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in addition, we obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ) and opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the separation for the company and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinions of outside counsel and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel and the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and irs private letter ruling may be affected. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the separation or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we or hewlett packard enterprise may fail to perform under the transaction agreements executed as part of the separation. in connection with the separation, we and hewlett packard enterprise entered into several agreements, including among others a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a real estate matters agreement and a commercial agreement. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. hewlett packard enterprise has spun off or separated certain of its businesses since the separation, and some of its obligations under these and other agreements have transferred to the successor entities. we will rely on hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities has separated are unable to satisfy their obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 44 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal year 2018 were the euro, chinese yuan renminbi, the british pound and the indian rupee. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and at times, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent in cost of sales. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses for continuing operations as of october 31, 2018 and 2017 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2018 and 2017 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $75 million and $64 million at october 31, 2018 and october 31, 2017 , respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2018 and 2017 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2018 and 2017 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would have resulted in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investments, net of interest rate swaps, of $69 million at october 31, 2018 and $61 million at october 31, 2017 . 49risk factors 11 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. our business faces many challenges we must address. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate. for example, a competitive pricing environment and weakened market in certain geographies with associated customer pricing sensitivity has presented market challenges in printing. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our global, multi-tier distribution network, limit potential misuse of pricing programs by our channel partners, adapt to new or changing marketplaces or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we have in the recent past and may again in the future face macroeconomic challenges, including weakness in certain geographic regions and global political developments that impact international trade, such as trade disputes and increased tariffs. we may also be vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address such challenges given the broad range of geographic markets in which we and our customers and partners operate. if we experience these challenges and do not succeed in our efforts to mitigate them, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application 11 software and internet infrastructure offerings, and our sustainability performance. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is a negative reception to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. financial performance could also decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, non-original supplies (including imitation, refill or remanufactured alternatives) for some of our laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. customers are increasingly using online and omnichannel resellers and distributors to purchase our products. these resellers and distributors often sell our products alongside competing products, including non-original supplies, or they may highlight the availability of lower cost non-original supplies. we expect this competition will continue, and it may negatively impact our financial performance, particularly if large commercial customers purchase competing products instead of hp products. if we cannot successfully execute our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer. our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. to successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories and adapt to new and changing marketplaces for our products. for example, our go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, needs to evolve in-line with market dynamics, forces and demand. if we cannot innovate, develop and execute evolutionary strategies in this changing environment, then we may not be able to successfully compete and maintain the value proposition of our products, including supplies. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. for example, our strategy includes advancing our position in the personal systems and printing markets. in personal systems, we are 12 focused on reinventing computing experiences, growing the lifetime value of our products, and accelerating services and solutions; in printing, we are focused on driving print innovation, maximizing the value of our installed base of printers, accelerating our contractual business model and pivoting our business models to providing customers choice. our strategy also includes disrupting in our industrial businesses, primarily by expanding our graphics and 3d printing solutions and unlocking new sources of value from microfluidics. we must optimize our cost structure, make long-term investments, develop or acquire and appropriately protect intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives or other investments may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel, and our customers may not adopt our new business models. our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change. even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones. our competitors may also create products that replace ours. as a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. if we cannot continue to produce high-quality and secure products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. in the course of conducting our business, we must address quality and security issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, and unsatisfactory performance or malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. our business is also exposed to the risk of defects in third-party components included in our products, including security vulnerabilities, as illustrated by the spectre and meltdown side-channel exploit threats. in order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be completely effective in controlling or detecting all quality and security issues or errors, particularly with respect to defects or security vulnerabilities in components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause or find an effective solution to address quality and security issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality and security issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality and security issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. in the event of security vulnerabilities or other issues with third-party components, we may have to rely on third parties to provide mitigation techniques such as firmware updates. furthermore, mitigation techniques for vulnerabilities in third-party components may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability and data loss or corruption. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality and security issues, including those resulting from defects or security vulnerabilities in third-party components, can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. the net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue, 13 which in turn depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue. in addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, increased tariffs, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may also have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, increased tariffs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. for example, our supplies business has recently experienced declining revenues due to declines in market share, installed base and usage, and increased customer pricing sensitivity. our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. third-party suppliers may have limited financial resources to withstand challenging business conditions, particularly as a result of increased interest rates or emerging market volatility, and our business could be negatively impacted if key suppliers are forced to cease or limit their operations. due to the international nature of our third-party supplier network, our financial results may also be negatively impacted by increased trade barriers and increased tariffs, which could increase the cost of certain components, products and services that we may not be able to offset. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. we represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or 14 services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectability risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these developments could adversely affect our future cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. working conditions and materials sourcing. we work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in an environmentally responsible and ethical way. brand perception and customer loyalty could be adversely impacted by a supplier's improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our supplier code of conduct, general specification for the environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, wood fiber certification (for hp brand paper and product packaging) and ghg emissions, water and waste data. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. we also rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs and workstations, and we rely on amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct sales and indirect channel sales efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, any failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial 15 resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. they may also have difficulty selling our products under new business models. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken or if our distributors cannot successfully compete in the online or omnichannel marketplace. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. our forecasts may not accurately predict demand, and distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods, including a multi-tiered channel, may reduce our visibility into inventories, demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. sales of our products by channel partners to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of our products could also make our forecasting more difficult and impact pricing in the market. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. in addition, factors in different markets may cause differential discounting between the geographies where our products are sold, which makes it difficult to achieve global consistency in pricing and creates the opportunity for grey marketing. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting net revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled by the customer. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest by revenues. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, business combination and investment transactions ). risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties or market trends. 16 certain prior business combination and investment transactions resulted, and in the future any such transactions may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failures to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable than anticipated or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal controls. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination and investment transaction is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. any announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill, tangible or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include impairment charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. such regulatory and governmental approvals may be required in diverse jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions with opaque regulatory frameworks, and any delays in the timing of such approvals could materially delay the transaction or prevent it from closing. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive 17 and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus; persuading both our customers and distributors and those of the acquired business not to defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have undertaken and may undertake in the future restructuring plans in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, including the plans announced in october 2016, which we amended in may 2018, and the plan announced in october 2019. we began implementing the 2020 restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 and expect to complete the restructuring by the end of fiscal 2022. implementation of any restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to obtain the estimated workforce reductions within the projected timing or at all, or the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency, adverse effects on employee morale, loss of key employees and/or other retention issues during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plans, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property ( ip ) laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain ip rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our ip rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such ip rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. for example, our enforcement of our ip rights of our inkjet printer supplies against infringers may be successfully challenged or our ip rights may be successfully circumvented. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on ip and technology licensed from third parties . some of our business and some of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or 18 such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our ip. third-party components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our ip without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our ip rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license to us at all or refuse to license to us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these ip rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. finally, we may rely on third-parties to enforce certain ip rights. for instance, we rely on canon to enforce ip rights associated with certain laserjet products. failure by canon to do so could impair our ability to protect our market share for those products. third-party claims of ip infringement are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their ip rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase ip assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as us and our customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed ip at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that ip claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of ip infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. additionally, claims of ip infringement may adversely impact our brand and reputation and imperil new and existing customer relationships. further, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from us levies upon it equipment (such as pcs, multifunction devices and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks, system outages and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. individuals or organizations, including malicious computer programmers and hackers, state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. such individuals or organizations also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. breaches of our facilities, network, or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and 19 business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our ip or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. additionally, the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network security, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. while we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to protect against cyber and other security problems, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. moreover, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. in some instances, we may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. in the past, we have experienced data security incidents resulting from unauthorized use of our systems or those of third parties, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business, and result in government enforcement actions and litigation and potential liability for us. for example, the gdpr imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual turnover and/or 20 million. we also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure, including portions provided by third parties, also may experience interruptions, outages, delays or cessations of service or may produce errors in connection with systems integrations, migration work or other causes from time to time. any such events could result in business disruptions and the process of remediating them could be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive than planned. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services businesses properly. the risks that accompany our services businesses differ from those of our other businesses. for example, the success of our services business depends to a significant degree on attracting clients to our services, retaining these clients and maintaining or increasing the level of revenues from these clients. our standard services agreements are generally renewable at a customer's option and/or subject to cancellation rights, with penalties for early termination. we may not be able to retain or renew services contracts with our clients, or our clients may reduce the scope of the services they contract for. factors that may influence contract termination, non-renewal or reduction include business downturns, dissatisfaction with our services or products attached to services we provide, our retirement or lack of support for our services, our clients selecting alternative technologies to replace us, the cost of our services as compared to the cost of services offered by our competitors, general market conditions or other reasons. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from lost clients or reductions in services. while our services agreements typically include penalties for early termination, these penalties may not fully cover our investments in these businesses in the event a client terminates a services agreement early or reduces the scope of the agreement. our clients could also delay or terminate implementations or use of our services or choose not to invest in additional services from us in the future. in addition, the pricing and other terms of some of our services agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the product margin of our services business. as a result, we may not generate the revenues we may have anticipated from our services businesses within the timelines anticipated, if at all. 20 in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, be able to hire, retain, train, motivate, develop, transition and deploy qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased net revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we have in the past experienced the impacts of macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions and markets, and we may experience similar impacts in the future. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. political developments impacting international trade, including continued uncertainty surrounding brexit, trade disputes and increased tariffs, particularly between the united states and china, may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions or drive political or national sentiment, weakening demand for our products and services. economic weakness and uncertainty and political or nationalist sentiment impacting global trade, including the willingness of non-u.s. consumers to purchase goods or services from u.s. corporations, may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit, or if any of our distributors, including wholesale and retail distributors, lack sufficient financial resources to withstand economic weakness. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses. 21 due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. approximately 65% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2019 came from outside the united states. in addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, changes or uncertainty in fiscal or monetary policy and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change resulting from brexit; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries, including the impact of recently imposed tariffs between the united states and china on a wide variety of products; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the united states or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; political or nationalist sentiment impacting global trade, including the willingness of non-u.s. consumers to purchase goods or services from u.s. corporations; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ( oems ), or changes to immigration and labor law which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; stringent privacy and data protection policies, such as the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ); changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. beginning in 2018, the united states commenced certain trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported from china and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the united states on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could increase the cost of our products and the components that go into making them. these increased costs could adversely impact our overall gross margin and profitability. tariffs could also make our products more expensive for customers, which could make our products less competitive and reduce demand. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. global economic events, including trade disputes, 22 economic sanctions and emerging market volatility, and associated uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate, which may contribute to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union (commonly known as brexit ) caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound. continued uncertainty regarding brexit may result in future exchange rate volatility. in addition, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. because a majority of our revenues are generated outside the united states, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the british pound or the weakness of the japanese yen, could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. in addition, global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into north and south america. our operations and those of our significant suppliers and distributors could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, such as those listed above or other economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers, our distributors and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. even if our operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a catastrophic event, they may reduce or cancel their orders, which may adversely affect our results of operations. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. 23 failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, hewlett-packard company has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with these intercompany transactions or other matters and may assess additional taxes or adjust taxable income on our tax returns as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, we cannot assure you that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement. in addition, tax legislation has been introduced or is being considered in various jurisdictions that could significantly impact our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. for example, the organization for economic cooperation and development (the oecd ) has recently recommended changes to numerous long-standing international tax principles. if countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the oecd guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that such laws and regulations will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. for example, we are subject to laws, regulations and standards concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, reuse, treatment and disposal of our products, including print supplies and batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product reparability, reuse and take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. past downgrades of hewlett-packard company's ratings increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities and reduced market capacity for our commercial paper. future 24 downgrades could have the same effects, and could also require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in net revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or our financial outlook and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by our competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; developments relating to the acquisition proposal made to us by xerox holdings corporation; and the timing and amount of our share repurchases. general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our stock. 25 we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this report. for example, we make significant estimates and assumptions when accounting for revenue recognition, taxes on earnings and restructuring and other charges. in addition, as discussed in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. risks related to the separation the allocation of ip rights between hewlett packard enterprise and hp as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain ip rights following the separation, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain ip rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hewlett-packard company allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp the ip assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of ip in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp will retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. there is a risk that the joint brand holding structure may impair the enforcement of hp's trademark rights against third parties that infringe them. furthermore, as a result of this shared use of the legacy branding, there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise could also adversely affect the reputation of hp. in addition, as a result of the allocation of ip as part of the separation, we no longer own ip allocated to hewlett packard enterprise and our resulting ip ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement, patent licensing and cross-licensing, our ability to sell our products or services, our competitive position in the industry and our ability to enter new product markets. the separation could result in substantial tax liability. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation qualified, for both the company and our stockholders, as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(d)(1)(d) and 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in addition, we obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ) and opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the separation for the company and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinions of outside counsel and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel and the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and irs private letter ruling may be affected. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the separation or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we or hewlett packard enterprise may fail to perform under the transaction agreements executed as part of the separation. in connection with the separation, we and hewlett packard enterprise entered into several agreements, including among others a separation and distribution agreement and an employee matters agreement. the separation and distribution agreement and employee matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. hewlett packard enterprise has spun off or separated certain of its businesses since the separation, and some of its obligations under these and other agreements have transferred to the successor entities. we will rely on hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities has separated are unable to satisfy their obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in over 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal year 2019 were the euro, chinese yuan renminbi, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and at times, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent in cost of sales. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses for continuing operations as of october 31, 2019 and 2018 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2019 and 2018 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $81 million and $75 million at october 31, 2019 and october 31, 2018 , respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2019 and 2018 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2019 and 2018 . the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would have resulted in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investments, net of interest rate swaps, of $49 million at october 31, 2019 and $69 million at october 31, 2018 . 49risk factors 13 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future period s. strategic and operational risks our business, results of operations and financial condition have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic. the covid-19 pandemic and the actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, a substantial curtailment of business activities (including the decrease in demand for a broad variety of goods and services), weakened economic conditions, supply chain disruptions, significant economic uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, both in the united states and abroad. the covid-19 pandemic is adversely impacting, and is expected to continue to adversely impact, our operations and financial performance. covid-19 related restrictions impacted the demand for certain products and services as a result of temporary closures of offices and businesses and as people moved to spending more time at home, which negatively impacted sales for commercial products in both personal systems and print. for as long as remote working and learning practices remain prevalent, whether due to restrictions implemented by governmental authorities or businesses allowing employees to continue to work remotely, we expect decreased sales of products for in-office consumption in some markets and channels. while this decrease in demand has been partially offset by increased sales of certain products for in-home consumption, we are unable to predict for how long or to what extent this increase will continue. moreover, our channel partners have experienced, and may continue to experience, disruptions in their operations due to restrictions implemented in response to covid-19, which has caused, and may continue to cause, reduced, or cancelled orders and/or collection risks. this has further adversely impacted our results of operations and we expect it to continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations. additionally, we have experienced temporary factory closures and other supply chain disruptions as a result of covid-19, and we may continue to experience such disruptions. for example, our manufacturing sites, including in china and southeast asia, as well as those of our suppliers and outsourcing partners, were adversely impacted by covid-19 as a result of quarantines, facility closures, and travel and logistics restrictions. as of the end of fiscal year 2020, our factories have returned to largely normalized levels. these disruptions in asia resulted in temporary supply shortages that affected sales worldwide for both personal systems and print, as well as incremental costs. we may experience further disruptions in the future, and any prolonged disruptions to our manufacturing operations, supply chain and/or distribution channels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we continue to have significant sources of cash and liquidity and access to committed credit lines, but a prolonged period of generating lower cash from operations could adversely affect our financial condition. we are also facing increased operational challenges as we take measures to support and protect employee health and safety, including limiting employee travel, closing facilities and offices, and implementing work-from-home policies for employees. in particular, our remote work arrangements, coupled with stay-at-home orders and quarantines, pose challenges for our employees and our it systems and extended periods of remote work arrangements could strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including cybersecurity and it systems management risks, and impair our ability to manage our business. the effects of covid-19 may also limit the resources afforded to or delay the implementation of our strategic initiatives and make it more difficult to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services. if our strategic initiatives are delayed or otherwise modified, such initiatives may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the ultimate impact of covid-19 on our operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including: governmental, business and individuals' actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic; general economic uncertainty in global markets and financial market volatility; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the pace of recovery when the covid-19 pandemic subsides. further, covid-19, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, could precipitate or aggravate the other risk factors that we identify in this report, any of which could materially adversely impact our business. we also face an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of 13 table of co ntents covid-19 on economic and market conditions. further, covid-19 may also affect our business and financial results in ways that are not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider as significant risks to our operations. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. our business faces many challenges we must address. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate. for example, a competitive pricing environment and weakened market in certain geographies with associated customer pricing sensitivity has presented market challenges in printing. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our global, multi-tier distribution network, limit potential misuse of pricing programs by our channel partners, exclude imitation print supplies from our printers with technological protection measures, adapt to new or changing marketplaces or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we currently face, and may face in the future, an unpredictable macroeconomic environment, which may exacerbate these challenges. if we do not succeed in our efforts to mitigate these challenges, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings, and our sustainability performance. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations, cash flows and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services. our alliance partners in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in others. in addition, these partners also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and/or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is a negative reception to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, the financial performance of that product could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. financial performance could also decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, non-original supplies (including imitation, refill or remanufactured alternatives) for some of our laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. 14 table of co ntents customers are increasingly using online and omnichannel resellers and distributors to purchase our products. these resellers and distributors often sell our products alongside competing products, including non-original print supplies, or they may highlight the availability of lower cost non-original supplies. we expect this competition will continue, and it may negatively impact our financial performance, particularly if large commercial customers purchase competing products instead of hp products. if we cannot successfully execute our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer. our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. to successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories and adapt to new and changing marketplaces for our products. for example, our go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, needs to evolve with market dynamics, forces and demand. in fiscal year 2020, we created a single commercial organization led by a newly-created chief commercial officer role. if we cannot innovate, develop and execute evolutionary strategies in this changing environment (including our end to end business model in print), then we may not be able to successfully compete and maintain the value proposition of our products, including supplies. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. moreover, the process of developing new high-technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. to execute our strategy, we must optimize our cost structure, make long-term investments, develop or acquire and appropriately protect intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives or other investments may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel, and our customers may not adopt our new business models. our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change. even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones. our competitors may also create products that replace ours. as a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving or improving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically or that we had expected. if we cannot continue to produce high-quality and secure products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. in the course of conducting our business, we must address quality and security issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, and unsatisfactory performance or malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. our business is also exposed to the risk of defects in third-party components included in our products, including security vulnerabilities. in order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be completely effective in controlling or detecting all quality and security issues or errors, particularly with respect to defects or security vulnerabilities in components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause or find an effective solution to address quality or security issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. we have and may again in the future write off some or all of the value of defective inventory. in addition, after products are delivered, quality and security issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing these issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. in the event of security vulnerabilities or other issues with third- 15 table of co ntents party components, we may have to rely on third parties to provide mitigation such as firmware updates. furthermore, these mitigation techniques may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability and data loss or corruption. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality and security issues, including those resulting from defects or security vulnerabilities in third-party components, can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. the net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our portfolio of products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue, which in turn depends on the overall demand for our products and services. for example, a combination of a higher consumer mix within both personal systems and print hardware and lower rate in commercial print negatively impacted gross margin in fiscal 2020. delays or reductions in spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue. in addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, increased tariffs, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may also have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. in addition, newer geographic markets can be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we can have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, increased tariffs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. for example, our supplies business has recently experienced declining revenues due to declines in market share, installed base and usage, and increased customer pricing sensitivity. our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet schedules for the delivery of our products and services. given the wide variety of products and services we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management and regulatory compliance that could seriously harm our business. third-party suppliers may have limited financial resources to withstand challenging business conditions, particularly as a result of increased interest rates or emerging market volatility, and our business could be negatively impacted if key suppliers are forced to cease or limit their operations. due to the international nature of our third-party supplier network, our financial results may also be negatively impacted by increased trade barriers and increased tariffs, which could increase the cost of certain components, products and services that we may not be able to offset. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions, human rights and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, we experienced disruptions in our manufacturing and supply chain during the covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in temporary supply shortages that negatively affected our ability to fulfill demand for personal systems and printing products worldwide. additionally, our personal systems business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our products. we represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may 16 table of co ntents not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about future availability. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our personal systems business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectability risks. in addition, our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue business with us. any of these developments could adversely affect our future cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to effectively manage our use of such workers could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. working conditions, human rights and materials sourcing. we work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices, working conditions, and respect for human rights, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in a socially and environmentally responsible and ethical way. brand perception, customer loyalty and legal compliance could be adversely impacted by a supplier's improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our supplier code of conduct, general specification for the environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, human rights due diligence, wood fiber certification (for hp brand paper and product packaging) and ghg emissions, water and waste data. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. we also rely on both intel and amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for the majority of our pcs and workstations. some of those processors may be customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 17 table of co ntents if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct sales and indirect channel sales efforts to reach potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, any failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability and cash flows. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products. moreover, some of our distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. they may also have difficulty selling our products under new business models. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken or if our distributors cannot successfully compete in the online or omnichannel marketplace. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. our forecasts may not accurately predict demand, and distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods, including a multi-tiered channel, may reduce our visibility into inventories, demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting and managing multi-tiered channel inventory more difficult. further, if we were to expand direct distribution initiatives, distributors could consider such initiatives to conflict with their business interests and reduce their investment in the distribution and sale of our products, or to cease all sales of our products. sales of our products by channel partners to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of our products could also make our forecasting and channel inventory management more difficult and impact pricing in the market. for example, in the past we have had channel partners sell products outside of their agreed territory, and misrepresent sales to unauthorized resellers as sales to end-users, frustrating our efforts to estimate channel inventory and maintain consistent pricing, and negatively impacting gross margins. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. in addition, factors in different markets may cause differential discounting between the geographies where our products are sold, which makes it difficult to achieve global consistency in pricing and creates the opportunity for grey marketing. in addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. to the extent they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting net revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled by the customer. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels, our results of operations and cash flows in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter due in part to seasonal holiday demand. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product 18 table of co ntents launches. typically, our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest by revenues. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business. risks associated with these transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability, cash flows and financial condition: managing these transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of any particular transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular transaction may depend upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties, competition or market trends. certain transactions have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failures to meet contractual obligations could make these transactions less profitable than anticipated or unprofitable. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal controls, including as a result of being dependent on the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for these transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and we may not identify all factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a transaction is not consummated. in order to complete a transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance these transactions, and the amount and terms of any such debt, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. these transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. any announced transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. these transactions may lead to litigation. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include impairment charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. such regulatory and governmental approvals may be required in jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions with opaque regulatory frameworks, and any delays in the timing of such approvals could materially delay the transaction or prevent it from closing. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. to pursue our strategy successfully, we have to identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the 19 table of co ntents integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integrations involve significant challenges and are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. these challenges include successfully combining product and service offerings; entering or expanding into markets; retaining key employees; integrating employees, facilities, technology, products, processes, operations (including supply and manufacturing operations), sales and distribution channels, business models and business systems; and retaining customers and distributors of the businesses. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have undertaken and may undertake in the future restructuring plans in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, including the plans announced in october 2016 (as amended in may 2018), and the plan announced in october 2019. we began implementing the 2020 restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 and expect to complete the restructuring by the end of fiscal 2022. implementation of any restructuring plan may be costly and disruptive to our business, and we may not be able to obtain the estimated workforce reductions within the projected timing or at all, or the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. we currently plan to invest some of the savings from our 2020 restructuring plan across our businesses, including investing to build our digital capabilities, and if we are unable to obtain the anticipated cost savings, our ability to make those investments and execute our strategy may be negatively impacted. additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency, adverse effects on employee morale, loss of key employees and/or other retention issues during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our 2020 restructuring plan, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property ( ip ) laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain ip rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, our ip rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such ip rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. for example, our enforcement of our ip rights of our inkjet printer supplies against infringers may be successfully challenged or our ip rights may be successfully circumvented. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hewlett-packard company allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp the ip assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation also include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of ip in the existing operations of both businesses. as a result of the allocation of ip as part of the separation, we no longer own ip allocated to hewlett packard enterprise and our resulting ip ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent and trademark enforcement, patent licensing and cross-licensing, our ability to sell our products or services, our competitive position in the industry and our ability to enter new product markets. our products and services depend in part on ip and technology licensed from third parties. some of our business and some of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our ip. third-party components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must monitor and manage our use of third-party components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our ip without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our ip rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license to us 20 table of co ntents or refuse to license to us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these ip rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. finally, we may rely on third-parties to enforce certain ip rights. for instance, we rely on canon to enforce ip rights associated with certain laserjet products. failure by canon to do so could impair our ability to protect our market share for those products. third-party claims of ip infringement are commonplace in our industry and may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties have in the past claimed, and may in the future claim, that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their ip rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase ip assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements. these assertions have increased over time, particularly in the united states. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed ip at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that ip claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of ip infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlements or license agreements, pay damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to fulfill its contractual obligations to us. additionally, claims of ip infringement may adversely impact our brand and reputation and imperil new and existing customer relationships. our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded in which groups representing copyright owners seek to impose upon and collect from us levies upon it equipment (such as pcs, multifunction devices and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by legislative bodies, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks, system outages and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our cash flows and stock price. we are exposed to attacks from individuals and organizations, including malicious computer programmers and hackers, state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, seeking to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. such attacks may also involve the deployment of viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the product. breaches of our facilities, network, or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our ip or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improve technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. additionally, the costs to us to combat cyber or other security problems can be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network security, even if nothing has been attempted or occurred, could adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. while we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to protect against cyber and other security problems, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. moreover, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. in some instances, we may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. in the past, we have experienced data security incidents resulting from unauthorized access to or use of our systems or those of third parties, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. 21 table of co ntents we manage and store proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of deception, can expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business, and result in government enforcement actions and litigation and potential liability for us. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) imposes a data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide annual turnover and/or 20 million. additionally, in the united states, california has adopted, and several states are considering adopting, laws and regulations imposing varying obligations regarding the handling of personal data. we also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure, including portions provided by third parties, may experience interruptions, outages, delays or cessations of service or may produce errors in connection with systems integrations, migration work or other causes. any such events could result in business disruptions and the process of remediating them could be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive than planned. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our cash flows and stock price. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services businesses properly. the risks that accompany our services businesses differ from those of our other businesses. for example, the success of our services business depends to a significant degree on attracting clients to our services, retaining these clients and maintaining or increasing the level of revenues from these clients. our standard services agreements are generally renewable at a customer's option and/or subject to cancellation rights, with or without penalties for early termination. we may not be able to retain or renew services contracts with our clients, or our clients may reduce the scope of the services they contract for. factors that may influence contract termination, non-renewal or reduction include business downturns, dissatisfaction with our services or products attached to services we provide, our retirement or lack of support for our services, our clients selecting alternative technologies to replace us, the cost of our services as compared to the cost of services offered by our competitors, general market conditions or other reasons. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from lost clients or reductions in services. while our services agreements may include penalties for early termination, these penalties may not fully cover our investments in these businesses in the event a client terminates a services agreement early or reduces the scope of the agreement. our clients could also delay or terminate implementations or use of our services or choose not to invest in additional services from us in the future. in addition, the pricing and other terms of some of our services agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the product margin of our services business. as a result, we may not generate the revenues we may have anticipated from our services businesses within the timelines anticipated, if at all. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, hire, retain, train, motivate, develop, and deploy qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees, we must provide competitive compensation, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our employee hiring and retention also depend on our ability to build and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace culture that enables our employees to thrive. additionally, changes in immigration policies may impair our ability to recruit and hire technical and professional talent. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others. 22 table of co ntents recently, hp was the target of a proxy contest and exchange offer by xerox holdings corporation in connection with its unsolicited offer to acquire hp. while xerox ultimately terminated its offer and withdrew the slate of director candidates it had nominated, if similar actions were taken in the future or we were the target of other activist shareholders in the future, our business could be adversely affected because responding to such actions can be costly and time-consuming, disruptive to our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. moreover, such actions may create perceived uncertainties among current and potential customers, clients, suppliers, employees and other constituencies as to our future direction, which could result in lost sales and the loss of business opportunities and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. in addition, actual or perceived actions of activist stockholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp judged as undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our stock. macroeconomic, industry and financial risks global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. ongoing economic weakness and uncertainty in markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased net revenue, gross margin, earnings, growth rates or cash flows and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. political developments impacting international trade, including continued uncertainty surrounding brexit, trade disputes and increased tariffs, particularly between the united states and china, may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions or drive political or national sentiment, weakening demand for our products and services. economic weakness and uncertainty and political or nationalist sentiment impacting global trade, including the willingness of non-u.s. consumers to purchase goods or services from u.s. corporations, may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit, or if any of our distributors lack sufficient financial resources to withstand economic weakness. continued economic weakness and uncertainty could also cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could 23 table of co ntents vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. there is uncertainty regarding the discontinuation, modification or reform of libor and the implementation of alternative reference rates could result in an increase in our interest expense. economic downturns also may lead to future restructuring actions and associated expenses. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. approximately 64% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2020 came from outside the united states. in addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, changes or uncertainty in fiscal or monetary policy, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, health emergencies or pandemics (such as the covid-19 pandemic) or any other changes resulting from brexit; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries, including the impact of tariffs between the united states and china on a wide variety of products; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, shipping, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by the united states or other countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; political or nationalist sentiment impacting global trade, including the willingness of non-u.s. consumers to purchase goods or services from u.s. corporations; local labor conditions and regulations, including labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ( oems ), or changes to immigration and labor law which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes or uncertainty in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards, customer requirements or levels of protection of intellectual property; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; stringent privacy and data protection policies, such as the gdpr; changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. beginning in 2018, the united states commenced certain trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported from china and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the united states on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could increase the cost of our products and the components that go into making them. tariffs or other trade restrictions could adversely impact our overall gross margin and profitability. tariffs or other trade-related actions could also disrupt our manufacturing and supply chain, or those of our key suppliers. for example, we rely on manufacturers and suppliers in asia for the production of notebook computers. in many countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended. although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. global economic events, including trade disputes, economic 24 table of co ntents sanctions and emerging market volatility, and associated uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate, which may contribute to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union (commonly known as brexit ) has caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound, and continued uncertainty regarding the withdrawal may continue to cause exchange rate volatility. in addition, if one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. because a majority of our revenues are generated outside the united states, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our net revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and/or options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility. in addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue, cash flows and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, natural disasters, fires, extreme weather conditions (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), medical epidemics or pandemics (such as covid-19) and other natural or man-made disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars, for which we are predominantly uninsured, may also disrupt our worldwide operations. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability, cash flows and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and/or result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. in addition, global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into north and south america. our operations and those of our significant suppliers and distributors could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, such as those described above or other economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers, our distributors and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. even if our operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a catastrophic event, they may reduce or cancel their orders, or these events could otherwise result in a decrease in demand for our products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. past downgrades of hewlett-packard company's ratings increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities and reduced market capacity for our commercial paper. future downgrades could have the same effect, and could also require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our level of indebtedness and related debt service obligations could adversely affect our business and financial condition. as of october 31, 2020, we had an aggregate of $6.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 2041 and we had availability under our revolving credit facility of $4.0 billion, availability under our 364-day revolving credit facility of $1.0 billion, and $725 million available from uncommitted lines of credit. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, and reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividend repayments, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. moreover, 25 table of co ntents our indebtedness increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. further, we may be required to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service obligations, debt refinancing, future acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. our ability to arrange additional financing or refinancing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control, and could be adversely impacted by our debt level. consequently, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us, which could adversely impact our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness or to repay our outstanding indebtedness as it becomes due and adversely impact our business and financial condition. additionally, further borrowings may increase the risk of a future downgrade in our credit ratings, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 of this report. for example, we make significant estimates and assumptions when accounting for revenue recognition, taxes on earnings and restructuring and other charges. in addition, as discussed in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. legal and regulatory risks our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that such laws and regulations will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. for example, we are subject to environmental laws, regulations and standards, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, reuse, treatment and disposal of our products, including print supplies and batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product repairability, reuse and take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. moreover, we are expected to become increasingly subject to laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change, such as carbon pricing or product energy efficiency requirements. as these new laws, regulations, treaties and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. we are subject to risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. we face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, commercial, ip, employment, and other issues on a global basis. there is an increasingly active litigation and regulatory environment, including but not limited to employment and patent-monetization claims in the united states and litigation and regulatory matters focused on consumer protection, privacy, and competition regulation globally. as described in note 14, litigation and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters that may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations, if decided adversely to or settled by us. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings have occurred and may occur, including awards of monetary damages, imposition of fines, issuance of injunctions or cease-and-desist orders directing us to cease engaging in certain business practices, cease manufacturing or selling certain products, requiring the compulsory licensing of patents, or requiring other remedies. an unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. in addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation and regulatory proceedings can be costly, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to management. 26 table of co ntents failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, hewlett-packard company has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. additionally, some of our agreements with governmental customers may be subject to periodic funding approval. funding reductions or delays could adversely impact public sector demand for our products and services. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with these intercompany transactions or other matters and may assess additional taxes or adjust taxable income on our tax returns as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, we may not accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement. in addition, tax legislation has been introduced or is being considered in various jurisdictions that could significantly impact our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. risks related to the separation we or hewlett packard enterprise may fail to perform under the transaction agreements executed as part of the separation. in connection with the separation, we and hewlett packard enterprise entered into several agreements, including among others a separation and distribution agreement and an employee matters agreement. the separation and distribution agreement and employee matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. hewlett packard enterprise has spun off or separated certain of its businesses since the separation, and some of its obligations under these and other agreements have transferred to the successor entities. we will rely on hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hewlett packard enterprise or its successor entities are unable to satisfy their obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in over 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal year 2020 were the euro, chinese yuan renminbi, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and at times, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent in cost of sales. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses for continuing operations as of october 31, 2020 and 2019, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2020 and 2019. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $77 million and $81 million at october 31, 2020 and october 31, 2019, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we may use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability in interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2020 and 2019, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2020 and 2019. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would have resulted in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investments, net of interest rate swaps, of $36 million at october 31, 2020 and $49 million at october 31, 2019. 51 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivatives only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy, and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. foreign currency exchange rate risk during the preceding fiscal year, we were exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for the preceding fiscal year were the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where hp is a net receiver, certain expense figures taken alone may be adversely affected by a weaker u.s. dollar. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, hp may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. hp also uses other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under sfas no. 133, consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. hp recognizes the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, hp may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with its foreign currency exposures if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of october 31, 2004 and 2003, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analysis covers all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2004 and 2003. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, net of exposures, of $71 million at october 31, 2004 and $96 million at october 31, 2003. interest rate risk during the preceding fiscal year, we also were exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. hp issues long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. hp then typically uses interest rate swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, hp may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if the fixed rate positions provide a more beneficial relationship between assets and liabilities. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate 80 investments, hp periodically may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. hp uses cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. hp also enters into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of october 31, 2004 and 2003, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analysis covers our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analysis uses actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2004 and 2003. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $2 million at october 31, 2004 and $7 million at october 31, 2003. equity price risk during the preceding fiscal year, we also were exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $70 million at october 31, 2004 and $97 million at october 31, 2003. we monitor our equity investments on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and the decline in value is determined to be other-than temporary, the carrying value is reduced to its current fair value. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $21 million at october 31, 2004 and $29 million at october 31, 2003. the aggregate cost of privately-held companies and other investments is $388 million at october 31, 2004 and $577 million at october 31, 2003. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 16 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. the competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. further, we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and therefore our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. moreover, revenue and margins could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. in addition, other companies have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laser and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. hp expects competitive refill and remanufacturing and cloned cartridge activity to continue to pressure margins in ipg, which in turn has a significant impact on hp margins and profitability overall. finally, industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. the process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will 16 accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at all or within a given product's life cycle. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third party components included in our products. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. however, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting, of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. however, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to 17 take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies such as hp. even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual agreements to us. if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. further, our costs of operations could be affected on an ongoing basis by the imposition of copyright levies or similar fees by rights holders or collection agencies in certain jurisdictions, primarily in europe. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition transaction third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. economic uncertainty could affect adversely our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and constrained it spending has previously resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. we could experience such economic weakness and reduced spending, particularly in our consumer businesses, due to the effects of high fuel costs. in addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio, inability by our lessees to make required lease payments and reduction in the value of leased equipment upon its return to us compared to the value estimated at lease inception. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion, and increases in pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. 18 terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up more than 60% of our revenue. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition also could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as more than 60% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, the relative weakness of the dollar against other currencies, particularly the euro and the japanese yen, has helped hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars) in recent periods. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. based on our currency modeling 19 as of the end of the fourth quarter, we believe that currency movements in fiscal 2006 will have an adverse impact on results reported in u.s. dollars relative to year-over-year periods. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. in addition, some areas, including california and parts of the east coast and midwest of the united states, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. these blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. losses and interruptions could also be caused by earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters, for which we are predominantly self-insured. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions or operations weaken. 20 our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. we depend on third party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage supplier issues properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, and risks associated with contingent workers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, disputes with suppliers (some of which are also customers), other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the supplies may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure supplies for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase supplies or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase supplies or services for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same cms, odms and suppliers that 21 we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain cms, odms and suppliers could be limited. in addition, certain of our cms, odms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, original design manufacturers or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. as described in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as described above. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. in addition, new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. the performance of such single source suppliers may affect the quality, quantity and price of supplies to hp. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. in particular, ipg and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our gross margin and profitability. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting ipg therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments, and ess in particular, have a higher fixed cost structure than others and may experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. any of these 22 changes could affect our profitability. furthermore, our tax provisions could be adversely affected as a result of any new interpretative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertain tax provisions. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each such quarter's total sales occur toward the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. in addition, we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the united states government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to execute planned cost reductions successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. historically, we have undertaken restructuring plans to bring operational expenses to appropriate levels for each of our businesses, while simultaneously implementing extensive new company-wide expense-control programs. in july 2005, we announced workforce restructurings as well as reductions through a u.s. early retirement program. we now expect these programs to involve the termination or early retirement of approximately 15,300 employees worldwide through the first quarter of fiscal 2007. we expect approximately half of the cost savings to be used to offset market forces or to be reinvested in our businesses to strengthen hp's competitiveness, particularly through hiring in key areas. we may have further workforce reductions or rebalancing actions in the future. significant risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, redundancies among restructuring programs, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, particularly sales employees. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. we also must keep employees focused on hp's strategies and goals, which may be more difficult due to uncertainty surrounding the workforce reduction efforts announced in july 2005. hiring and retaining qualified 23 executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. the failure to hire or loss of key employees, including employees who elected to participate in the u.s. early retirement program announced in july 2005, could have a significant impact on our operations. decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. we have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based compensation as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. in recent periods, some of hp's employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of hp's stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain present, or attract prospective employees. in addition, in accordance with financial accounting standards board statement 123r, "share-based payment," hp will begin recording charges to earnings for share-based payments in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. as a result, we will incur increased compensation costs associated with our share-based compensation programs. moreover, difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant share-based payments to employees in the future. like other companies, hp has reviewed its equity compensation strategy in light of the current regulatory and competitive environment and has decided to reduce the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payments. due to this change in our share-based compensation strategy, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that can affect our stock price are: speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our executive team, strategic position, business, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, prospects or extraordinary transactions; the announcement of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by hp or competitors; and quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin or earnings, changes in estimates by the investment community and variations between actual and estimated financial results. general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp common stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. if instituted against hp, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 24 system security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could harm our revenue, increase our expenses and harm our reputation and stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. as a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our network. moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers for information technology outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions ("extraordinary transactions") and enter into agreements relating to such extraordinary transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete extraordinary transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks of extraordinary transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. if we fail to identify and complete successfully extraordinary transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; 25 consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we evaluate and enter into significant extraordinary transactions on an ongoing basis. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. in addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for extraordinary transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. managing extraordinary transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. these extraordinary transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. moreover, hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with extraordinary transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with an extraordinary transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. in order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders, or borrow, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. in addition, hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and extraordinary transactions could impact our effective tax rate. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing an extraordinary transaction and the risk that an announced extraordinary transaction may not close. as a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state and international laws governing the environment, including laws governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. many of our products are subject to various federal, state and international laws 26 governing chemical substances in products, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or our products could be enjoined from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. we also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead, cadmium and certain other substances that will apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the european union as of july 1, 2006 (restriction of hazardous substances directive) and similar legislation currently proposed in china. the ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict, and liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. it is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the united states, even when we are not subject to local government regulations. we also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. we record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. the eu has enacted the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. the deadline for the individual member states of the eu to enact the directive in their respective countries was august 13, 2004 (such legislation, together with the directive, the "weee legislation"). producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing these responsibilities beginning in august 2005. implementation in certain eu member states may be delayed into 2006. hp's potential liability resulting from the weee legislation may be substantial. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, china and japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. 27 these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2005 were the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where hp is a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, hp may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. hp also uses other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under sfas no. 133, "accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities," consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. hp recognizes the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, hp may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with its foreign currency exposures if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2005 and 2004, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2005 and 2004. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $90 million at october 31, 2005 and $71 million at october 31, 2004. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. hp issues long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. hp then typically uses interest rate swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense and to manage exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, hp may 65 choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if the fixed rate liability is offset with fixed rate assets. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, hp may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. hp may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. hp may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2005 and 2004, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2005 and 2004. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $4 million at october 31, 2005 and $2 million at october 31, 2004. equity price risk we also are exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $64 million at october 31, 2005 and $70 million at october 31, 2004. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $19 million at october 31, 2005 and $21 million at october 31, 2004. the aggregate cost of privately-held companies and other investments is $353 million at october 31, 2005 and $388 million at october 31, 2004. 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 16 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. the competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. the markets in which we do business, particularly the personal computer and printing markets, are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services from numerous companies globally. over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers, printers and related products has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for these products. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and therefore our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. in addition, other companies have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laserjet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. hp expects competitive refill and remanufacturing and cloned cartridge activity to continue to pressure margins in ipg, which in turn has a significant impact on hp margins and profitability overall. 16 if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. the process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at all or within a given product's life cycle. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. however, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. the introduction of new products by our suppliers, such as the release of the windows vista operating system by microsoft during hp's first fiscal quarter of 2007, also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new 17 customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. however, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition transaction third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies such as hp. if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual agreements to us. finally, our costs of operations could be affected on an ongoing basis by the imposition of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing against hp seeking to impose levies upon equipment (such as multifunction devices and printers) and alleging that the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. other countries that do not yet have levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes. the ultimate impact of these potential copyright levies or similar fees, including the number of units impacted, the amount of levies imposed and the ability of hp to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. 18 economic uncertainty could affect adversely our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and constrained it spending has previously resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. we could experience such economic weakness and reduced spending, particularly in our consumer businesses, due to the effects of high fuel costs. in addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio, inability by our lessees to make required lease payments and reduction in the value of leased equipment upon its return to us compared to the value estimated at lease inception. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion, and increases in pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up more than 60% of our net revenue. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition also could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations; 19 managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as more than 60% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, other currencies, particularly the euro and the japanese yen, can have an impact on hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars). currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. in addition, some areas, including california and parts of the east coast, southwest and midwest of the united states, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. these blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. moreover, our planned consolidation of all of our worldwide it data centers into six centers located in the southern u.s. could increase the impact on us of a natural disaster or other business disruption occurring in that geographic area. 20 if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage supplier issues properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. 21 shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, disputes with suppliers (some of which are also customers), other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the supplies may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure supplies for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase supplies strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future supplies. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase supplies or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase supplies or services for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same cms, odms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain cms, odms and suppliers could be limited. in addition, certain of our cms, odms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, cms, odms or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. as described in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as described above. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations, handheld computing devices and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources may not exist or those alternative sources may be 22 unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of supplies to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely effect our revenue and gross margins. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. in particular, ipg and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our gross margin and profitability. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting ipg therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments, and ess in particular, have a higher fixed cost structure than others and may experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. any of these changes could affect our profitability. furthermore, our tax provisions could be adversely affected as a result of any new interpretative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertain tax positions. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occur towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction 23 of revenue, earnings and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the united states government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to execute planned cost reductions successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. historically, we have undertaken restructuring and other cost reduction plans to bring operational expenses to appropriate levels for each of our businesses, while simultaneously implementing extensive new company-wide expense control programs. in july 2005, we announced workforce restructurings as well as reductions through a u.s. early retirement program. we now expect these programs to involve the elimination or early retirement of approximately 15,200 positions worldwide through the first quarter of fiscal 2007. we expect to reinvest a significant portion of the cost savings from these actions to offset market forces or to be reinvested in our businesses to strengthen hp's competitiveness, particularly through hiring in key areas. we may have further workforce reductions or rebalancing actions in the future. significant risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, and increased costs associated with workforce reductions in those locations, redundancies among restructuring programs, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, particularly sales employees. during hp's third fiscal quarter of 2006, we announced a multi-year plan to reduce it spending by consolidating hp's 85 data centers worldwide into six larger centers located in three u.s. cities, a four-year program to reduce real estate costs by consolidating several hundred hp real estate locations worldwide to fewer core sites, and a plan to integrate the activities carried out by our global operations organization directly into our business segments. such actions are expected to result in instances of accelerated depreciation or asset impairment when we vacate facilities or cease using equipment before the end of their respective lease term or asset life. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, including assumptions regarding the costs and timing of activities in connection with these initiatives. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties some of which are beyond our control. if these 24 assumptions are not realized and we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. we also must keep employees focused on hp's strategies and goals, which may be more difficult due to uncertainty surrounding the workforce reduction efforts and the pension and retiree medical benefit plan changes announced in july 2005. hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. the failure to hire or loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. cost reduction efforts associated with our share-based payment awards and other compensation and benefit programs could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. we have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. hp began recording charges to earnings for stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), "share-based payment". as a result, we will incur increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. moreover, difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. like other companies, hp has reviewed its equity compensation strategy in light of the current regulatory and competitive environment and has decided to reduce the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. due to this change in our stock-based compensation strategy, combined with the pension and other benefit plan changes undertaken to reduce costs and our increasing reliance on variable pay, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that can affect our stock price are: speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our executive team, strategic position, business, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, prospects or extraordinary transactions; the announcement of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by hp or competitors; and quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin or earnings, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by hp, and variations between actual and estimated financial results. 25 general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp common stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. if instituted against hp, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. system security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could harm our revenue, increase our expenses and harm our reputation and stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. in addition, computer programmers and hackers may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. as a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our network and any security vulnerabilities of our products. moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers for information technology outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, including our planned consolidation of all of our worldwide it data centers into six centers, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. any failure by us to manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects and may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions ("extraordinary transactions") and enter into agreements relating to such extraordinary transactions in order to further our business objectives. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete extraordinary transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks of extraordinary transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. if we fail to identify and complete successfully extraordinary transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology 26 internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we evaluate and enter into significant extraordinary transactions on an ongoing basis. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any extraordinary transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of an extraordinary transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. in addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for extraordinary transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. managing extraordinary transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. these extraordinary transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. moreover, hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with extraordinary transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with an extraordinary transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. in order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders, or borrow, affecting our 27 financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. in addition, hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and extraordinary transactions could impact our effective tax rate. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing an extraordinary transaction and the risk that an announced extraordinary transaction may not close. as a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. we cannot predict the outcome of various regulatory inquiries and stockholder derivative action lawsuits arising out of the processes employed in the investigation into leaks of hp confidential information to members of the media, and we may be named in additional regulatory inquiries and stockholder litigation, all of which could result in significant legal and other expenses. the attorney general of the state of california, the committee on energy and commerce of the u.s. house of representatives, the united states attorney's office for the northern district of california, the division of enforcement of the sec and the federal communications commission are all conducting or have conducted inquiries or investigations relating to the processes employed in the investigation into leaks of hp confidential information to members of the media. four stockholder derivative lawsuits also have been filed in california (all of which have been consolidated into a single lawsuit) and two in delaware purportedly on behalf of hp stockholders seeking to recover damages and to obtain specified injunctive relief stemming from the activities of the leak investigations. other regulatory inquiries or investigations may be commenced by other u.s. federal, state or foreign regulatory agencies, and we may in the future be subject to additional litigation or other proceedings arising in relation to these matters. the period of time necessary to resolve these regulatory inquiries and investigations and stockholder lawsuits is uncertain, and the expense of responding to these inquiries and defending such litigation may be significant. in addition, we may be obligated to indemnify (and advance legal expenses to) former or current directors, officers or employees in accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other applicable agreements, and delaware law. further, if we enter into settlement agreements or are subject to an adverse finding resulting from any of these inquiries, we could be required to pay fines or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. we have entered into an agreement with the california attorney general to resolve civil claims relating to the leak investigation. under the terms of the agreement, which includes an injunction, we have agreed to pay a total of $14.5 million and to implement and maintain for five years a series of measures designed to ensure that hp's corporate investigations are conducted in accordance with california law and the company's high ethical standards. if we fail to implement and maintain these measures as required under the agreement, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state and international laws governing the environment, including laws governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. many of our products are subject to various federal, state and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or our products could be enjoined from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. we also face increasing complexity in our product 28 design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead, cadmium and certain other substances that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the european union as of july 1, 2006 (restriction of hazardous substances directive) and similar legislation in china, the labeling provisions of which go into effect on march 1, 2007 in china. the ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict, and liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. it is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to sites inside and outside the united states, even when we are not subject to local government regulations. we also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. we record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. the eu has enacted the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. the deadline for the individual member states of the eu to enact the directive in their respective countries was august 13, 2004 (such legislation, together with the directive, the "weee legislation"). producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing these responsibilities beginning in august 2005. implementation in certain eu member states has been delayed into 2006 and 2007. hp's potential liability resulting from the weee legislation may be substantial. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, china and japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. 29 any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2006 were the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under sfas no. 133, "accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities," consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. we recognize the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2006 and 2005, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2006 and 2005. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $104 million at october 31, 2006 and $90 million at october 31, 2005. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then typically use interest rate swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating 68 interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2006 and 2005, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2006 and 2005. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $19 million at october 31, 2006 and $4 million at october 31, 2005. equity price risk we are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $36 million at october 31, 2006 and $64 million at october 31, 2005. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for trading or speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $11 million at october 31, 2006 and $19 million at october 31, 2005. the aggregate cost of privately-held companies and other investments is $362 million at october 31, 2006 and $353 million at october 31, 2005. 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 15 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. the competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. 15 unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. the markets in which we do business, particularly the personal computer and printing markets, are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services from numerous companies globally. over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers, printers and related products has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for these products. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and therefore our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. in addition, other companies have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laserjet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. hp expects competitive refill and remanufacturing and cloned cartridge activity to continue to pressure margins in ipg, which in turn has a significant impact on hp margins and profitability overall. if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. the process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at all or within a given product's life cycle. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as 16 well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. however, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software features and functionality; frequent introduction of new products; short product life cycles; and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. however, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to 17 protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition transaction third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies such as hp. if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual agreements to us. finally, our results of operations and cash flows could be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing against hp seeking to impose levies upon equipment (such as pcs, multifunction devices and printers) and alleging that the copyright owners are entitled to compensation because these devices enable reproducing copyrighted content. other countries that do not yet have levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. if imposed, the amount of copyright levies would depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which may be affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving hp and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, but could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these potential copyright levies or similar fees and the ability of hp to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. economic uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and constrained it spending has previously resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. we could experience such economic weakness and reduced spending, particularly in our consumer and financial services businesses, due to increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. in addition, customer financial difficulties have previously resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio, inability by our lessees to make required lease 18 payments and reduction in the value of leased equipment upon its return to us compared to the value estimated at lease inception. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion, and increases in pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 67% of our net revenue. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition also could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as approximately 67% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, other currencies, particularly the euro and the japanese yen, can have an impact on hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars). currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of 19 the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. in addition, some areas, including california and parts of the east coast, southwest and midwest of the united states, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. these blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. moreover, the consolidation of all of our worldwide it data centers into six centers located in the southern united states, when completed, could increase the impact on us of a natural disaster or other business disruption occurring in that geographic area. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most 20 advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of which are also customers), other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. in particular, our pc business relies heavily upon contract manufacturers ("cms") and original design manufacturers ("odms") to manufacture its products and is 21 therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those cms and odms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these cms and odms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular cm or odm could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the cm or odm and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that cm or odm. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the supplies may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure supplies for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase supplies strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future supplies. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase supplies or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase supplies or services for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same cms, odms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain cms, odms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its cms and odms may create large supplier receivables with the cms and odms that, depending on the financial condition of the cms and odms, may have a risk of uncollectibility. in addition, certain of our cms, odms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, cms, odms or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as described above. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations, handheld computing devices and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for 22 additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources may not exist or those alternative sources may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of supplies to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely effect our revenue and gross margins. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we are currently, and in the future may be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a material reduction in expected revenue. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. in particular, ipg and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our gross margin and profitability. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting ipg, therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments, and ess in particular, have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. 23 we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this report. in addition, as discussed in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates under the provisions of sfas no. 5 "accounting for contingencies," including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. any of these changes could affect our profitability. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occur towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the united states government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely 24 impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to execute planned cost reductions successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. we have adopted restructuring and other cost reduction plans to bring operational expenses to appropriate levels for each of our businesses, while simultaneously implementing extensive new company-wide expense control programs. these initiatives include: a workforce restructuring program and a related u.s. early retirement program announced in july 2005 that we expect to result in the elimination of approximately 14,985 positions by the end of fiscal 2008; a multi-year plan announced in the third fiscal quarter of 2006 to reduce it spending by consolidating hp's 85 data centers worldwide into six larger centers located in three u.s. cities; a multi-year program announced in the third fiscal quarter of 2006 to reduce real estate costs by consolidating several hundred hp real estate locations worldwide to fewer core sites; modifications to our defined benefit pension plan, our subsidized retiree medical program and our 401(k) plan announced in february 2007 pursuant to which affected employees will cease accruing pension benefits and will, instead, receive an increased 401(k) match effective january 1, 2008; and a u.s. early retirement program announced in february 2007 under which 3,080 employees left the company as of may 31, 2007, all of whom have been or we expect will be replaced. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, including estimates and assumptions regarding the cost of consolidating the data centers and real estate locations, the amount of accelerated depreciation or asset impairment to be incurred when we vacate facilities or cease using equipment before the end of their respective lease term or asset life, the savings associated with the benefit plan changes announced in february 2007, the costs associated with the replacement of employees who retired under the february 2007 early retirement program and the costs and timing of other activities in connection with these initiatives. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. the failure to hire executives and key employees or the loss of executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. 25 changes to our compensation and benefit programs could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. we have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. hp began recording charges to earnings for stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), "share-based payment." as a result, we began to incur increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. moreover, difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. like other companies, hp has reviewed its equity compensation strategy in light of the current regulatory and competitive environment and has reduced the total number of share-based payment awards granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. due to this change in our stock-based compensation strategy, combined with the pension and other benefit plan changes undertaken to reduce costs and our increasing reliance on variable pay, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, or executive team; the announcement of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by hp or its competitors; and quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flow from operations, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by hp, and variations between actual and estimated financial results. general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp common stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. if instituted against hp, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. system security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could harm our revenue, increase our expenses and harm our reputation and stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. in addition, computer programmers and hackers may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit 26 any security vulnerabilities of our products. as a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our network and any security vulnerabilities of our products. moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers for information technology outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, including our current project to consolidate all of our worldwide it data centers into six centers, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. any failure by us to manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects and may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we frequently acquire complementary companies or businesses, divest non-core businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions or if multiple transactions are integrated simultaneously. if we fail to identify and complete successfully business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; 27 minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we evaluate and enter into significant business combination and investment transactions on an ongoing basis. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. in addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. these business combination and investment transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. moreover, hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. in order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders, or borrow, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. in addition, hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination and investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close. as a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. 28 we cannot predict the outcome of various regulatory inquiries and stockholder derivative action lawsuits arising out of the processes employed in the investigation into leaks of hp confidential information to members of the media, and we may be named in additional regulatory inquiries and stockholder litigation, all of which could result in significant legal and other expenses. the attorney general of the state of california, the committee on energy and commerce of the u.s. house of representatives, the u.s. attorney for the northern district of california, the division of enforcement of the sec and the u.s. federal communications commission all have conducted inquiries or investigations relating to the processes employed in an investigation into leaks of hp confidential information to members of the media that concluded in may 2006. we have entered into an agreement with the california attorney general to resolve civil claims relating to the leak investigation. under the terms of the agreement, which includes an injunction, we have paid a total of $14.5 million and agreed to implement and maintain for five years a series of measures designed to ensure that hp's corporate investigations are conducted in accordance with california law and the company's high ethical standards. we also have consented to the entry of an order by the sec ordering hp to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of the public reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. if we fail to implement and maintain the measures required under the agreement with the california attorney general or if we fail to comply with the sec cease and desist order, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. four stockholder derivative lawsuits also have been filed in california (all of which have been consolidated into a single lawsuit) and two in delaware (both of which have been consolidated into a single lawsuit) purportedly on behalf of hp stockholders seeking to recover damages and to obtain specified injunctive relief stemming from the activities of the leak investigations. we may in the future also be subject to additional litigation or other proceedings arising in relation to these matters. the period of time necessary to resolve the stockholder lawsuits is uncertain, and the expense of defending and concluding such litigation may be significant. in addition, we may be obligated to indemnify (and advance legal expenses to) former or current directors, officers or employees in accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other applicable agreements, and delaware law. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, such as laws governing the conduct of our facilities and operations with respect to the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. it is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental clean-up to sites outside the united states, even where we are not required to do so under applicable local laws and regulations. many of our products are subject to various federal, state and international laws governing chemical substances, including laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or our products could be enjoined from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. the ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict, and liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. we record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead, cadmium and certain other substances that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the european union as of july 1, 2006 (restriction of hazardous substances directive) and 29 similar legislation in other countries including china, japan and korea. we also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. the eu has enacted the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (the "weee legislation"), which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the united states, canada, mexico, china and japan. we are continuing to evaluate the cumulative impact of, and are taking steps to comply with, the weee legislation and similar legislation in other jurisdictions as individual countries issue their implementation legislation and guidance. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2007 were the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under sfas no. 133, "accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities," consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. we recognize the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2007 and 2006, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2007 and 2006. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $104 million at both october 31, 2007 and october 31, 2006. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then typically use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for 69 floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2007 and 2006, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2007 and 2006. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $17 million at october 31, 2007 and $19 million at october 31, 2006. equity price risk we are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $9 million at october 31, 2007 and $36 million at october 31, 2006. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $3 million at october 31, 2007 and $11 million at october 31, 2006. the aggregate cost of privately-held companies and other investments was $533 million at october 31, 2007 and $362 million at october 31, 2006. 70risk factors 16 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. the competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. the markets in which we do business, particularly the personal computer and printing markets, are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services from numerous companies globally. over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers, printers and related products has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for these products. in addition, competitors in some of the markets in which we compete with a greater presence in lower-cost jurisdictions may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and therefore our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. in addition, other companies have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laserjet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property 16 table of contents protection may not exist. hp expects competitive refill and remanufacturing and cloned cartridge activity to continue to pressure margins in ipg, which in turn has a significant impact on hp margins and profitability overall. if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. the process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at all or within a given product's life cycle. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. however, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software features and functionality; frequent introduction of new products; short product life cycles; and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be 17 table of contents overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the technology and products we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this too could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, in recent years individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies such as hp. if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that the claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations to us. finally, our results of operations and cash flows could be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing against hp in which groups representing copyright owners seek to impose upon and collect from hp levies upon equipment (such as pcs, multifunction devices and printers) that they allege are copying devices under applicable laws. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies 18 table of contents on these types of devices. if imposed, the total amount of the copyright levies would depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which may be affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving hp and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, but which could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these potential copyright levies or similar fees, and the ability of hp to recover such amounts through increased prices, remain uncertain. economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and constrained it spending has resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. we have experienced, and may experience in the future, reduced spending in our consumer and financial services businesses due to the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. in addition, customer financial difficulties have resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio, inability by our lessees to make required lease payments and reduction in the value of leased equipment upon its return to us compared to the value estimated at lease inception. in particular, our exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties, including the u.s. automobile industry, and certain financially troubled customers, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion, increases in pension and post-retirement benefit expenses, and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 69% of our net revenue. in addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including brazil, russia, india and china. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations; 19 table of contents managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as approximately 69% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, other currencies, particularly the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen, can have an impact on hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars). currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could have a material impact on our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply 20 table of contents chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults. in addition, all six of our worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in 21 table of contents end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, and supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of which are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. in particular, our pc business relies heavily upon cms and odms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those cms and odms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these cms and odms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular cm or odm could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the cm or odm and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that cm or odm. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the supplies may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure supplies for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase supplies strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future supplies. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase supplies or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase supplies or services for prices in excess of the 22 table of contents current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same cms, odms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain cms, odms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its cms and odms may create large supplier receivables with the cms and odms that, depending on the financial condition of the cms and odms, may have risk of uncollectability. in addition, certain of our cms, odms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, cms, odms or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as described above. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations, handheld computing devices and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources may not exist or those alternative sources may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of supplies to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our it services business properly. as a result of our acquisition of eds in august 2008, we have significantly increased the size of the it services portion of our business. the risks that accompany that business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the pricing and other terms of some of our it services agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected 23 table of contents costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third-party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services that could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we are currently, and in the future may be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a material reduction in expected revenue. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. in particular, ipg and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our gross margin and profitability. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting ipg, therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments, and ess in particular, have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product 24 table of contents portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this report. in addition, as discussed in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates under the provisions of sfas no. 5 "accounting for contingencies," including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. any of these changes could affect our profitability. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occur towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, 25 table of contents component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the united states government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to execute on our strategy for operational efficiency successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. we have adopted an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. as part of this framework, we have adopted several initiatives, including: a multi-year plan announced in the third fiscal quarter of 2006 to consolidate hp's 85 data centers worldwide into six larger centers located in three u.s. cities and transform our it infrastructure to improve operational efficiency and workforce effectiveness and significantly reduce our it spending; a multi-year program announced in the third fiscal quarter of 2006 to reduce real estate costs by consolidating several hundred hp real estate locations worldwide to fewer core sites; and a multi-year process of examining every function and every one of our businesses and functions in order to optimize efficiency and reduce cost. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, including estimates and assumptions regarding the cost of consolidating the data centers and real estate locations, the amount of accelerated depreciation or asset impairment to be incurred when we vacate facilities or cease using equipment before the end of their respective lease term or asset life, and the costs and timing of other activities in connection with these initiatives. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, in september 2008, we announced a workforce restructuring program relating to our acquisition of eds. we expect that program to involve the elimination of approximately 24,700 positions worldwide through fiscal 2012. we expect to replace approximately half of these positions in locations that will optimize our global footprint. significant risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, delays in hiring and integrating new employees, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. 26 table of contents in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. the failure to hire executives and key employees or the loss of executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. changes to our compensation and benefit programs could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. we have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. like other companies, hp has implemented changes to its compensation programs intended to reduce fixed costs, create a high performance culture at all levels and provide an opportunity for employees to earn significant rewards if hp delivers strong financial results. hp also has reduced the total number of share-based payment awards granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. in addition, effective in fiscal 2008, hp changed its primary form of share-based payment award to performance-based restricted stock units that contain conditions relating to hp's long-term financial performance and continued employment by the recipient that may be viewed unfavorably by some employees who are accustomed to the fixed vesting and other terms historically associated with other forms of share-based payment awards. due to these changes in our compensation strategy, combined with the pension and other benefit plan changes undertaken to reduce costs, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. moreover, difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, or executive team; the announcement of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by hp or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flow from operations, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by hp, and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hp's competitors and other companies in the it industry; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hp. 27 table of contents general or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp common stock. in particular, the stock market as a whole recently has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to those companies' operating performance. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. if instituted against hp, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. system security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us and damage to the company's brand and reputation. accordingly, we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, including our current project to consolidate all of our worldwide it data centers into six centers, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we frequently acquire complementary companies or businesses, divest non-core businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully 28 table of contents complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. in addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these transactions less profitable or unprofitable. moreover, if we fail to identify and complete successfully business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions. for example, in august 2008, we completed our acquisition of eds, and we are in the process of integrating eds into our company. the size of the acquisition of eds increases both the scope and consequence of ongoing integration risks. we may not successfully address the integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies of the eds acquisition. if we fail to realize such anticipated benefits or synergies, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. these business combination 29 table of contents and investment transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. moreover, hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. in order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. in addition, we may borrow to finance an acquisition, including borrowing to replace the short-term borrowings used to finance our recently completed acquisition of eds. although our current credit ratings have been affirmed by the three independent rating agencies taking into account the borrowing relating to the eds acquisition, the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. any potential future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and cost of borrowing and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. in addition, hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination and investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close. as a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products and product take-back legislation. we could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims and clean up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. 30 table of contents some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2008 were the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and inter-company lease loan denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under sfas no. 133, "accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities," consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. we recognize the gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2008 and 2007, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2008 and 2007. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $141 million and $104 million at october 31, 2008 and october 31, 2007, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then typically use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for 74 table of contents floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2008 and 2007, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2008 and 2007. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt and investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $9 million at october 31, 2008 and $17 million at october 31, 2007. equity price risk we are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $5 million at october 31, 2008 and $9 million at october 31, 2007. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. in the event that the carrying value of the equity investment exceeds its fair value, and we determine the decline in value to be other than temporary, we reduce the carrying value to its current fair value. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $2 million at october 31, 2008 and $3 million at october 31, 2007. the aggregate cost of privately-held companies, marketable trading securities and other investments was $425 million at october 31, 2008 and $533 million at october 31, 2007. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. the competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. the 15 table of contents markets in which we do business, particularly the personal computer and printing markets, are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services from numerous companies globally. over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers, printers and related products has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for these products. in addition, competitors in some of the markets in which we compete with a greater presence in lower-cost jurisdictions may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. in addition, other companies have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laserjet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. hp expects competitive refill and remanufacturing and cloned cartridge activity to continue to pressure margins in ipg, which in turn has a significant impact on hp margins and profitability overall. if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. the process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so at all or within a given product's life cycle. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. however, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products, our operating margins could be 16 table of contents adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty managing inventory levels. for example, we have recently experienced reduced revenue from our product businesses due to slowing global economic growth, declines in the availability of credit, weakening consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures and other challenges currently affecting the global economy. sustained uncertainty about current global economic conditions may result in our customers continuing to postpone spending, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services. economic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write downs and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts and components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets could lead to increased pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, hedging expenses and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of 17 table of contents whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. in particular, our pc business relies heavily upon outsourced manufacturers ("oms") to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase components or services for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may have risk of uncollectability. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, oms or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as described above. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel corporation to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our 18 table of contents pcs, workstations, handheld computing devices and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources may not exist or those alternative sources may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of components to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults. in addition, all six of our worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including shanghai, singapore and india. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products and in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. system security risks, data protection breaches and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design 19 table of contents or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our clients, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending could materially adversely affect demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenues. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. in particular, ipg and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our gross margin and profitability. in addition, our services business has contributed significantly to our revenue and operating profit in recent periods. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments, and ess in particular, have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. 20 table of contents hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, or executive team; the announcement of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by hp or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flow from operations, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by hp, and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hp's competitors and other companies in the it industry; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hp. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp common stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. if instituted against hp, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the technology and products we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this too could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive 21 table of contents advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, in recent years individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies such as hp. if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that the claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations to us. finally, our results of operations and cash flows could be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing against hp in which groups representing copyright owners seek to impose upon and collect from hp levies upon equipment (such as pcs, multifunction devices and printers) that they allege are copying devices under applicable laws. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. if imposed, the total amount of the copyright levies would depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which may be affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving hp and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, which could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these potential copyright levies or similar fees, and the ability of hp to recover such amounts through increased prices, remain uncertain. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 64% of our net revenue. in addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including brazil, russia, india and china. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; 22 table of contents import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as approximately 64% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, other currencies, particularly the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen, can have an impact on hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars). currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could have a material impact on our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. as a result, we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities if our forecasts are incorrect. in addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. 23 table of contents our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software features and functionality; frequent introduction of new products; short product life cycles; and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any 24 table of contents of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our it services business properly. the size and significance of the it services portion of our business has increased in recent periods. the risks that accompany that business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the pricing and other terms of some of our it services agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third-party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we are currently, and in the future may be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its 25 table of contents accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a material reduction in expected revenue. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this report. in addition, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions, the adoption of a new u.s. tax legislation or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, president obama's administration has recently announced proposals for a new u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. any of these changes could affect our profitability. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occur towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely 26 table of contents impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the united states government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to execute on our strategy for operational efficiency successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. we have adopted an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. as part of this framework, we have adopted several initiatives, including a multi-year program announced in 2006 to reduce real estate costs by consolidating several hundred hp real estate locations worldwide to fewer core sites, and a multi-year process of examining every function and every one of our businesses and functions in order to optimize efficiency and reduce cost. we have also implemented a workforce restructuring program in fiscal 2008 relating to our services business and a workforce restructuring program in fiscal 2009 relating to our product businesses. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, including estimates and assumptions regarding the cost of consolidating real estate locations, the amount of accelerated depreciation or asset impairment to be incurred when we vacate facilities or cease using equipment before the end of their respective lease term or asset life, and the costs and timing of other activities in connection with these initiatives. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, there are significant risks associated with our workforce restructuring programs, including potential delays in the implementation of those programs in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, decreases in employee morale, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. the failure to hire executives and key employees or the loss of executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. 27 table of contents changes to our compensation and benefit programs could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. like other companies, hp has implemented changes to its compensation programs intended to reduce fixed costs, create a high performance culture at all levels and provide an opportunity for employees to earn significant rewards if hp delivers strong financial results. these changes included reducing base pay for many employees; lowering the cap on matching contributions under the hp 401(k) plan; making the funding of the hp 401(k) plan matching contributions fully discretionary depending on quarterly business results; and eliminating the purchase price discount for shares purchased under the hp share ownership plan, all of which were announced in february 2009. hp also has reduced the total number of share-based payment awards granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. due to these changes in our compensation programs, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. moreover, any difficulty relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could limit our ability to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in iraq and afghanistan have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we frequently acquire complementary companies or businesses, divest non-core businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. in addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these transactions less profitable or unprofitable. moreover, if we fail to identify and complete 28 table of contents successfully business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions. for example, in august 2008, we completed our acquisition of eds, and we are in the process of integrating eds into our company. the size of the acquisition of eds increases both the scope and consequence of ongoing integration risks. we may not successfully address the integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies of the eds acquisition. if we fail to realize such anticipated benefits or synergies, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. these business combination and investment transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. moreover, hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges 29 table of contents relating to the impairment of those assets. in order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. in addition, we may borrow to finance an acquisition, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. any potential future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and cost of borrowing and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. in addition, hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination and investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close. as a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products and product take-back legislation. we could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims and clean up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. 30 table of contents these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 for the fiscal years ended october 31 2009 2008 2007 in billions cash and cash equivalents $ 13.3 $ 10.2 $ 11.3 total debt $ 15.8 $ 17.9 $ 8.2 available borrowing resources (1) $ 18.1 $ 11.7 $ 10.3 (1) in addition to these available borrowing resources, we are able to offer for sale, from time to time, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants under the 2009 shelf registration statement. our cash position remains strong, and we believe our cash balances are sufficient to cover cash outlays expected in fiscal 2010. cash flows the following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics from our consolidated statements of cash flow: for the fiscal years ended october 31 2009 2008 2007 in millions net cash provided by operating activities $ 13,379 $ 14,591 $ 9,615 net cash used in investing activities (3,580 ) (13,711 ) (9,123 ) net cash used in financing activities (6,673 ) (2,020 ) (5,599 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,126 $ (1,140 ) $ (5,107 ) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities decreased by approximately $1.2 billion for fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008. the decrease was due primarily to increased utilization of cash resources for payment of operating liabilities such as accounts payable, other current liabilities and restructuring along with a decrease in net earnings, the impact of which was partially offset by the increased generation of cash resources through the utilization of operating assets such as inventory and other current assets along with increased amortization expense. net cash provided by operating activities increased by approximately $5.0 billion for fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007. the increase was due primarily to higher net earnings in fiscal 2008, a decrease in accounts and financing receivables, and increased accounts payable. 68 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our key working capital metrics are as follows: october 31 2009 2008 2007 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 48 45 43 days of supply in inventory 23 27 34 days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (1) . (57 ) (52 ) (53 ) cash conversion cycle 14 20 24 (1) beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we reclassified certain activity within other accrued liabilities to accounts payable as this better represents the nature of the activity. all prior periods have been revised to conform to the current presentation. days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("dso") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. dso is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. our accounts receivable balance was $13.4 billion as of october 31, 2007. days of supply in inventory ("dos") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. dos is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our inventory balance was $8.0 billion as of october 31, 2007. days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("dpo") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. dpo is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our accounts payable balance was $12.4 billion as of october 31, 2007. our working capital requirements depend upon our effective management of the cash conversion cycle, which represents effectively the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials to the collection of cash from our customers. the cash conversion cycle is the sum of dso and dos less dpo. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2009 decreased by 6 days as compared to fiscal 2008. the increase in dso was due primarily to our improving penetration into the enterprise market which tends to have a higher dso profile, optimizing terms to drive shareholder value as well as more sales in the month of october. the decrease in dos was due to lower inventory levels driven primarily by improved inventory management. the increase in dpo was due primarily to a change in purchasing linearity in the fourth quarter. the cash conversion cycle for the fiscal 2008 decreased by 4 days as compared to fiscal 2007. the increase in dso was due primarily to a higher accounts receivable balance during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 compared to the same period in fiscal 2007 and the effect of the eds acquisition. the decrease in dos was due primarily to more efficient inventory management, higher cost of goods sold during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of increased revenues and the effect of the eds acquisition. the slight decrease in dpo was due to the effect of the eds acquisition. investing activities net cash used in investing activities decreased by approximately $10.1 billion for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 due primarily to higher cash payments made in connection with fiscal 2008 69 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) acquisitions and increased by approximately $4.6 billion for fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007 due to fiscal 2008 acquisition activity. financing activities net cash used in financing activities increased by approximately $4.7 billion for fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008. the increase was due primarily to higher net repayments of commercial paper and debt, the impact of which was partially offset by decreased repurchases of our common stock. net cash used in financing activities decreased by approximately $3.6 billion for fiscal 2008, as compared to fiscal 2007. the decrease was due primarily to higher net issuance of commercial paper and debt. for more information on our share repurchase programs, see item 5 and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. capital resources debt levels for the fiscal years ended october 31 2009 2008 2007 in millions, except interest rates and ratios short-term debt $ 1,850 $ 10,176 $ 3,186 long-term debt $ 13,980 $ 7,676 $ 4,997 debt-equity ratio 0.39x 0.46x 0.21x weighted-average interest rate 2.7% 3.6% 5.3% we maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, overall cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. in fiscal 2009 short-term debt decreased by $8.3 billion and long-term debt increased by $6.3 billion as compared to fiscal 2008. this was primarily due to the replacement of short-term debt with long-term debt as capital market conditions improved from last year, which was partially offset by a reclassification of $1 billion from long-term to short-term. short-term debt and long-term debt increased by $7.0 billion and $2.7 billion respectively, for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. the net increase in total debt is due mainly to commercial paper issued in conjunction with the eds acquisition. our debt-equity ratio is calculated as the carrying value of debt divided by the carrying value of equity. our debt-equity ratio decreased by 0.07x in fiscal 2009, due primarily to the net repayment of $2.0 billion debt. it increased by 0.25x in fiscal 2008 due primarily to funding the eds acquisition by debt. our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the year; it factors in the impact of swapping some of our global notes with fixed interest rates for global notes with floating interest rates. for more information on our interest rate swaps, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. the slightly lower weighted average interest rates over the past three years is a result of the combination of lower market interest rates and swapping some of our fixed interest obligations 70 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) associated with some of our fixed global notes for variable rate obligations through interest rate swaps in a declining rates environment. for more information on our borrowings, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. available borrowing resources at october 31, 2009, we had the following resources available to obtain short-term or long-term financings if we need additional liquidity: at october 31, 2009 in millions 2009 shelf registration statement (1) unspecified commercial paper programs (2) 16,200 uncommitted lines of credit (3) 1,600 revolving trade receivables-based facilities (4) 269 (1) in may 2009, we filed a shelf registration statement (the "2009 shelf registration statement") with the sec to enable us to offer for sale, from time to time and as the capital markets permit, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. (2) our commercial paper programs are supported by various credit facilities, including a $3.5 billion credit facility expiring in february 2010 and a $2.9 billion credit facility expiring in may 2012. our ability to have a u.s. commercial paper outstanding balance that exceeds the $6.4 billion supported by our credit facilities is subject to a number of factors, including liquidity conditions and business performance. hp also has registered for the commercial paper funding facility ("cpff") provided by the federal reserve bank of new york, which would enable hp to issue three-month unsecured commercial paper through a special purpose vehicle of the federal reserve. the maximum amount of commercial paper that hp may issue at any time through this program is $10.4 billion less the total principal amount of all other outstanding commercial paper that hp has issued. the cpff program is currently scheduled to expire on february 1, 2010. as of october 31, 2009, hp had not issued any commercial paper under the cpff program. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information about these credit facilities and the cpff program. (3) hp maintains uncommitted lines of credit from a number of financial institutions that are available through various foreign subsidiaries. (4) we have revolving trade receivables-based facilities permitting us to sell certain trade receivables to third parties on a non-recourse basis. the aggregate maximum capacity under these programs was $568 million as of october 31, 2009. 71 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) credit ratings our credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. the ratings for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2009 were: for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2009 standard &amp; poor's ratings services moody's investors service fitch ratings services short-term debt ratings a-1 prime-1 f1 long-term debt ratings a a2 a+ we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt. however, a downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under our credit facilities. also, a downgrade in our credit rating could limit our ability to issue commercial paper under our current programs. if this occurs, we would seek alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities or the issuance of notes under our existing shelf registration statements. contractual and other obligations the impact that we expect our contractual and other obligations as of october 31, 2009 to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: payments due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years in millions principal payments on long-term debt (1) $ 14,203 $ 1,027 $ 5,403 $ 6,119 $ 1,654 interest payments on long-term debt (2) 1,772 386 661 328 397 operating lease obligations 3,412 949 1,244 597 622 purchase obligations (3) 2,033 1,775 224 31 3 capital lease obligations 568 134 142 62 230 total $ 21,988 $ 4,271 $ 7,674 $ 7,137 $ 2,906 (1) amounts represent the expected principal cash payments relating to our long-term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. (2) amounts represent the expected interest cash payments relating to our long-term debt. we have outstanding interest rate swap agreements accounted for as fair value hedges that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with some of our fixed global notes for variable rate obligations. the impact of these interest rate swaps was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. (3) purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancelable without penalty. these purchase obligations are related principally to inventory and other items. 72 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) in addition to the above, at october 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.3 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertainty in income tax positions, which will be partially offset by $58 million of deferred tax assets and interest receivable. these liabilities and related interest and penalties include $19 million expected to be paid within one year. for the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on taxes. funding commitments in fiscal 2010, we expect to contribute approximately $820 million to our pension and post-retirement plan funding. our funding policy is to contribute cash to our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. funding for the years following 2010 would be based on the then current market conditions, actuarial estimates and plan funding status. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on pension activity. as a result of our approved restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $1.9 billion. we expect to make cash payments of approximately $1.1 billion in fiscal 2010 and the majority of the remaining amount through 2012. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on restructuring activities. guarantees and indemnifications see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from guarantees and indemnifications. litigation and contingencies see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from litigation and contingencies. off-balance sheet arrangements as part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("spes"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. as of october 31, 2009, we are not involved in any material unconsolidated spes. 73 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant to our operations for fiscal 2009 were the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and inter-company lease loan denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. for these types of derivatives and hedges we recognize the gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2009 and 2008, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2009 and 2008. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $106 million and $141 million at october 31, 2009 and october 31, 2008, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then typically use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for 74 table of contents floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2009 and 2008, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2009 and 2008. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $33 million at october 31, 2009 and $9 million at october 31, 2008. equity price risk we are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $5 million at october 31, 2009 and $5 million at october 31, 2008. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly-traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of $1 million at october 31, 2009 and $2 million at october 31, 2008. the aggregate cost of privately-held companies, marketable trading securities and other investments was $142 million at october 31, 2009 and $425 million at october 31, 2008. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 15 table of contents competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. in addition, companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. those companies also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with strategic alliance partners could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. the markets in which we do business, particularly the personal computer and printing markets, are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services from numerous companies globally. over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers, printers and related products has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for these products. in addition, competitors in some of the markets in which we compete with a greater presence in lower-cost jurisdictions may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based solutions may reduce demand for some of our existing hardware products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. other companies have also developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laserjet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. 16 table of contents if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. the process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. for example, we must successfully address the increasing market demand for mobile computing devices in a variety of form factors that provide a compelling user experience. we must also attract and retain developers to ensure the continued availability and development of appealing and innovative software applications for our mobile computing devices. in addition, we are transitioning to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service, and we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so at all or within a given product's life cycle. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. however, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could adversely affect our operating results. economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty managing inventory levels. sustained uncertainty about current global economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services. economic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write downs and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts and components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. 17 table of contents economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets could lead to increased pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, hedging expenses and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. in addition, our ongoing project to improve the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming and resource-intensive than expected. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. in particular, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. 18 table of contents contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase components or services for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may have risk of uncollectability. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, oms or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as described above. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel corporation to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations, handheld computing devices and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources may not exist or those alternative sources may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of components to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for 19 table of contents which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults. in addition, all six of our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including shanghai, singapore and india. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products and in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. system security risks, data protection breaches and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our clients, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. 20 table of contents the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending could materially adversely affect demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenues. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. in particular, ipg and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our gross margin and profitability. in addition, our services business has contributed significantly to our revenue and operating profit in recent periods. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments, and ess in particular, have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, or executive team; the announcement of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by hp or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flow from operations, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by hp, and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hp's competitors and other companies in the it industry; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hp. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp common stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. if instituted against hp, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 21 table of contents our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the technology and products we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this too could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, individuals and groups frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies such as hp. the number of these claims has increased significantly in recent periods and may continue to increase in the future. if we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that the claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations to us. finally, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving hp in which groups representing copyright owners sought to impose upon and collect from hp levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from hp. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving hp and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative 22 table of contents bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and the ability of hp to recover such amounts through increased prices, remain uncertain. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 65% of our net revenue. in addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including brazil, russia, india and china. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific hp suppliers and oms; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as approximately 65% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, other currencies, particularly the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen, can have an impact on hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars). currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and 23 table of contents services and highly volatile exchange rates. as a result, we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities if our forecasts are incorrect. in addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. for example, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, the german public prosecutor's office, the u.s. department of justice and the sec have been investigating allegations that certain current and former employees of hp engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion or were involved in kickbacks or other improper payments. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to 24 table of contents pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software features and functionality; frequent introduction of new products; short product life cycles; and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our it services business properly. the size and significance of the it services portion of our business has increased in recent periods. the risks that accompany that business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the pricing and other terms of some of our it services agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. 25 table of contents some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a reduction in expected revenue. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this report. in addition, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon 26 table of contents resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, president obama's administration has announced proposals for other u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. there are also other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being considered, or that have been enacted by the united states congress or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could affect our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our other tax liabilities. for example, the commonwealth of puerto rico has enacted tax legislation effective on january 1, 2011 that, in certain situations, would impose a new, temporary excise tax relating to our non-puerto rican subsidiaries that sell products manufactured by our puerto rican subsidiaries. any of these changes could affect our profitability. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occur towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the united states government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to execute on our strategy for operational efficiency successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. we have adopted an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. as part of this framework, we have adopted several initiatives, including a multi-year program announced in 2006 to reduce real estate costs by consolidating several hundred hp real estate locations worldwide to fewer core sites, and a multi-year process of examining every function and every one of our businesses and functions in order to optimize efficiency and reduce cost. we have also 27 table of contents implemented a workforce restructuring program in fiscal 2008 relating to our acquisition of electronic data systems corporation ("eds"), a workforce restructuring program in fiscal 2009 relating to our product businesses and a multi-year restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 relating to our enterprise services business. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, including estimates and assumptions regarding the cost of consolidating real estate locations, the amount of accelerated depreciation or asset impairment to be incurred when we vacate facilities or cease using equipment before the end of their respective lease term or asset life, and the costs and timing of other activities in connection with these initiatives. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, there are significant risks associated with our workforce restructuring programs, including potential delays in the implementation of those programs in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, decreases in employee morale, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and share-based compensation. our primary form of share-based incentive award is performance-based restricted stock units, which contain conditions relating to hp's long-term financial and stock price performance that makes the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such share-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. the failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in iraq and afghanistan have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. 28 table of contents any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we frequently acquire complementary companies or businesses, divest non-core businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. in addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make these transactions less profitable or unprofitable. moreover, if we fail to identify and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and profitability. integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. these business combination 29 table of contents and investment transactions also have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. moreover, hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. in order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. in addition, we may borrow to finance an acquisition, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. any potential future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and cost of borrowing and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. in addition, hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination and investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close. as a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. we could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; 30 table of contents specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 for the fiscal years ended october 31 2010 2009 2008 in billions cash and cash equivalents $ 10.9 $ 13.3 $ 10.2 total debt $ 22.3 $ 15.8 $ 17.9 available borrowing resources (1) $ 13.8 $ 18.1 $ 11.7 (1) in addition to these available borrowing resources, we are able to offer for sale, from time to time, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants under a shelf registration statement filed with the sec in may 2009 (the "2009 shelf registration statement"). our cash position remains strong, and we believe our cash balances and anticipated cash flow generated from operations are sufficient to cover cash outlays expected in fiscal 2011. on december 2, 2010, hp issued $2.0 billion of u.s. dollar global notes under the 2009 shelf registration statement. the global notes were fixed rate notes at market rates with maturities of five and ten years from the date of issuance. cash flows the following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics from our consolidated statements of cash flow: for the fiscal years ended october 31 2010 2009 2008 in millions net cash provided by operating activities $ 11,922 $ 13,379 $ 14,591 net cash used in investing activities (11,359 ) (3,580 ) (13,711 ) net cash used in financing activities (2,913 ) (6,673 ) (2,020 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (2,350 ) $ 3,126 $ (1,140 ) 61 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities decreased by approximately $1.5 billion for fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. the decrease was due primarily to an increase in accounts and financing receivables resulting from higher revenues in the fourth quarter and higher payments for account payable activities, the impact of which was partially offset by the increase in net earnings. net cash provided by operating activities decreased by approximately $1.2 billion for fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008. the decrease was due primarily to increased utilization of cash resources for payment of operating liabilities such as accounts payable, other current liabilities and restructuring along with a decrease in net earnings, the impact of which was partially offset by the increased generation of cash resources through the utilization of operating assets such as inventory and other current assets along with increased amortization expense. our key working capital metrics are as follows: october 31 2010 2009 2008 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 50 48 45 days of supply in inventory 23 23 27 days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (52 ) (57 ) (52 ) cash conversion cycle 21 14 20 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("dso") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. dso is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. our accounts receivable balance was $18.5 billion as of october 31, 2010. days of supply in inventory ("dos") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. dos is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our inventory balance was $6.5 billion as of october 31, 2010. days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("dpo") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. dpo is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our accounts payable balance was $14.4 billion as of october 31, 2010. our working capital requirements depend upon our effective management of the cash conversion cycle, which represents effectively the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials to the collection of cash from our customers. the cash conversion cycle is the sum of dso and dos less dpo. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2010 increased by 7 days as compared to fiscal 2009. the increase in dso was due primarily to linearity and fewer cash discounts in the fourth quarter. dos remained flat year over year. the decrease in dpo was due primarily to a change in purchasing linearity in the fourth quarter. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2009 decreased by 6 days as compared to fiscal 2008. the increase in dso was due primarily to our improving penetration into the enterprise market which tends to have a higher dso profile, optimizing terms to drive shareholder value as well as more sales in the month of october. the decrease in dos was due to lower inventory levels driven primarily by 62 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) improved inventory management. the increase in dpo was due primarily to a change in purchasing linearity as business recovered through the fourth quarter. investing activities net cash used in investing activities increased by approximately $7.8 billion for fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 due primarily to higher cash payments made in connection with fiscal 2010 acquisitions and decreased by approximately $10.1 billion for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 due primarily to higher cash payments made in connection with fiscal 2008 acquisitions. financing activities net cash used in financing activities decreased by approximately $3.8 billion for fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. the decrease was due primarily to a higher net issuance of commercial paper, the impact of which was partially offset by increased repurchases of our common stock and lower global debt issuance. net cash used in financing activities increased by approximately $4.7 billion for fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008. the increase was due primarily to higher net repayments of commercial paper and debt, the impact of which was partially offset by decreased repurchases of our common stock. for more information on our share repurchase programs, see item 5 and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. capital resources debt levels for the fiscal years ended october 31 2010 2009 2008 in millions, except interest rates and ratios short-term debt $ 7,046 $ 1,850 $ 10,176 long-term debt $ 15,258 $ 13,980 $ 7,676 debt-equity ratio 0.55x 0.39x 0.46x weighted-average interest rate 2.0 % 2.7 % 3.6 % we maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, overall cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. short-term debt and long-term debt increased by $5.2 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, for fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. the net increase in total debt is due primarily to spending on acquisitions and share repurchases. in fiscal 2009, short-term debt decreased by $8.3 billion and long-term debt increased by $6.3 billion as compared to fiscal 2008. this was primarily due to the replacement of short-term debt with long-term debt as capital market conditions improved from the prior year, the impact of which was partially offset by a reclassification of $1 billion from long-term to short-term. our debt-equity ratio is calculated as the carrying value of debt divided by the carrying value of equity. our debt-equity ratio increased by 0.16x in fiscal 2010, due primarily to the issuance of $3.0 billion of u.s dollar global notes in september and a $4 billion net increase in commercial paper 63 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) at the end of fiscal 2010. our debt-equity ratio decreased by 0.07x in fiscal 2009 due primarily to the net repayment of $2.0 billion in debt. our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the year; it factors in the impact of swapping some of our global notes with fixed interest rates for global notes with floating interest rates. for more information on our interest rate swaps, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. the lower weighted-average interest rates over the past three years is a result of the combination of lower market interest rates and swapping some of our fixed interest obligations associated with some of our fixed global notes for variable rate obligations through interest rate swaps in a declining rates environment. for more information on our borrowings, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. available borrowing resources at october 31, 2010, we had the following resources available to obtain short-term or long-term financings if we need additional liquidity: at october 31, 2010 in millions 2009 shelf registration statement (1) unspecified commercial paper programs (1) $12,100 uncommitted lines of credit (1) $ 1,500 revolving trade receivables-based facilities (2) $ 175 (1) for more information on our available borrowings resources, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. (2) for more information on our revolving trade receivables-based facilities, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. credit ratings our credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. the ratings for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2010 were: for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2010 standard &amp; poor's ratings services moody's investors service fitch ratings services short-term debt ratings a-1 prime-1 f1 long-term debt ratings a a2 a+ we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt. however, a downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under our credit facilities. also, a downgrade in our credit rating could limit our ability to issue commercial paper under our current programs. if this occurs, we would seek alternative sources of 64 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities or the issuance of notes under our existing shelf registration statement. contractual and other obligations the impact that we expect our contractual and other obligations as of october 31, 2010 to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: payments due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years in millions principal payments on long-term debt (1) $ 16,294 $ 2,111 $ 7,945 $ 4,600 $ 1,638 interest payments on long-term debt (2) 1,489 386 570 173 360 operating lease obligations 3,565 879 1,426 630 630 purchase obligations (3) 2,644 1,973 609 62 capital lease obligations 548 111 123 242 72 total $ 24,540 $ 5,460 $ 10,673 $ 5,707 $ 2,700 (1) amounts represent the expected principal cash payments relating to our long-term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. (2) amounts represent the expected interest cash payments relating to our long-term debt. we have outstanding interest rate swap agreements accounted for as fair value hedges that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with some of our fixed global notes for variable rate obligations. the impact of these interest rate swaps was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. (3) purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. these purchase obligations are related principally to inventory and other items. purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. purchase obligations also exclude open purchase orders that are routine arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business as they are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way. even though open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business need prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, at october 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.0 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertainty in income tax positions, which will be partially offset by $90 million of deferred tax assets and interest receivable. these liabilities and related interest and penalties include $55 million expected to be paid within one year. for the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on taxes. 65 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) funding commitments in fiscal 2011, we expect to contribute approximately $817 million to our pension and post-retirement plan funding. our funding policy is to contribute cash to our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. funding for the years following 2011 would be based on the then current market conditions, actuarial estimates and plan funding status. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on pension activity. as a result of our approved restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $2.1 billion. we expect to make cash payments of approximately $1.4 billion in fiscal 2011 with remaining cash payments through 2016. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on restructuring activities. guarantees and indemnifications see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from guarantees and indemnifications. litigation and contingencies see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from litigation and contingencies. off-balance sheet arrangements as part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("spes"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. as of october 31, 2010, we are not involved in any material unconsolidated spes. 66 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 40 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currency to our operations for fiscal 2010 were the euro, the japanese yen, chinese yuan renminbi and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and inter-company lease loan denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. for these types of derivatives and hedges we recognize the gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2010 and 2009, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2010 and 2009. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $122 million and $106 million at october 31, 2010 and october 31, 2009, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then typically use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest 67 table of contents expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2010 and 2009, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual maturities for the debt, investments and interest rate swaps and approximate maturities for financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2010 and 2009. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $28 million at october 31, 2010 and $33 million at october 31, 2009. equity price risk we are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $9 million at october 31, 2010 and $5 million at october 31, 2009. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of approximately $3 million and $1 million at october 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the aggregate cost of privately-held companies, and other investments was $163 million at october 31, 2010 and $142 million at october 31, 2009. 68 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. unlike many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. for example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, an alliance partner that also markets a line of competing servers announced that it intends to cease software development for our itanium-based servers, which has resulted in orders for our servers being canceled or delayed. if that decision is not reversed or if another solution is not successfully implemented, there would be reduced demand for our itanium-based servers over the longer term. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. the markets in which we do business, particularly the personal computer and printing markets, are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services from numerous companies globally. over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers, printers and related products has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for these products. in addition, competitors in some of the markets in which we compete with a greater presence in lower-cost jurisdictions may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. 16 table of contents even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based solutions may reduce demand for some of our existing hardware products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. other companies have also developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laserjet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. if we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a changing/hybrid model of it delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for solutions. to successfully execute on this strategy, we need to continue to evolve our historically hardware-centric business model towards a model that includes more software and higher value services offerings. in addition, we need to continue to further evolve the focus of our organization towards the delivery of integrated it solutions for our customers. any failure to successfully execute this strategy could adversely affect our operating results. the process of developing new high technology products, services and solutions and enhancing existing products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. for example, as we transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third- party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance by third-party contractors. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to determine appropriate solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errata, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' 17 table of contents expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could adversely affect our operating results. economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty, including the ongoing macroeconomic challenges in the united states and the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union, have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty managing inventory levels. in addition, sustained uncertainty about current global economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services. economic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets could lead to increased pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, hedging expenses and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. in addition, our ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming and resource-intensive than expected. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, 18 table of contents as discussed under "business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses" below, we obtain disk drive components from suppliers with operations in thailand that have been severely impacted by the recent floods in that region, which has caused a short-term reduction in the supply of those components. in addition, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, and we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase components or services for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may have risk of uncollectability. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, oms or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as described above. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate our supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we 19 table of contents rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources may not exist or those alternative sources may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity or price of components to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, all six of our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including shanghai, singapore and india. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products and in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. however in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. in late july 2011, thailand began experiencing severe flooding that has caused widespread damage to the local manufacturing industry. hp obtains disk drive components used in its pcs, servers and storage devices from suppliers with operations in thailand that were and continue to be severely impacted by the flooding. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience a short-term reduction in the supply of these disk drive components. if we are unable to support our ongoing demand for disk drive components, the revenue, gross margins and results of operations of our pc, server and storage businesses may be adversely affected. 20 table of contents system security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our clients, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending could materially adversely affect demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenues. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly 21 table of contents basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation in the media or investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, stock price performance or executive team; the announcement of new or planned products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hp or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flow from operations, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by hp, and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hp's competitors and other companies in the it industry; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hp. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. if instituted against hp, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our competitive position. 22 table of contents because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, individuals and groups frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hp and their customers. the number of these claims has increased significantly in recent periods and may continue to increase in the future. if we cannot or do not license infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. finally, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving hp in which groups representing copyright owners sought to impose upon and collect from hp levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from hp. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving hp and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and the ability of hp to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 65% of our net revenue. in addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including brazil, russia, india and china. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; 23 table of contents longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific hp suppliers and oms; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as approximately 65% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, other currencies, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen, can have an impact on hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars). in particular, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, hp sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. as a result, we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities if our forecasts are incorrect. in addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. for example, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, 24 table of contents the german public prosecutor's office, the u.s. department of justice and the sec have been investigating allegations that certain current and former employees of hp engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion or were involved in kickbacks or other improper payments. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software features and functionality; frequent introduction of new products; short product life cycles; and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. to maintain our competitive position in these markets, we must successfully develop and 25 table of contents introduce new products and services. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our it services business properly. the size and significance of the it services portion of our business have increased in recent periods. the risks that accompany that business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the pricing and other terms of some of our it services agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate 26 table of contents adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a reduction in expected revenue. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies. two of those rating agencies, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings services, downgraded our ratings on november 30 and december 2, 2011, respectively. our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by fitch ratings services and have been under review for possible downgrade by moody's investors service since october 28, 2011. these downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this report. in addition, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. 27 table of contents unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, president obama's administration has announced proposals for other u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. there are also other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being considered, or that have been enacted by the united states congress or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could affect our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our other tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our profitability. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 28 table of contents any failure by us to execute on our strategy for operational efficiency successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. we have an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. as part of this framework, we have adopted several initiatives, including our ongoing initiative to transform our supply chain and leverage our corporate infrastructure and a more recent initiative to implement better tools, standardize key processes, integrate critical it systems, minimize redundant or legacy systems and take other actions to improve our productivity, sales, forecasting and business decisions. we also implemented a multi-year restructuring plan in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 relating to our enterprise services business. our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with implementing changes to our tools, processes and systems given our large portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the number of acquisitions that hp has completed in recent years. there are also significant risks associated with our enterprise services workforce restructuring plan, including potential delays in the implementation of that plan in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, decreases in employee morale, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes to our tools, processes and systems, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and share-based compensation. our share-based incentive awards include stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based restricted units, some of which contain conditions relating to hp's stock price performance and hp's long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such share-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. the failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems 29 table of contents or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the military operations now being wound down in iraq and the ongoing military operations in afghanistan have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we frequently acquire complementary companies or businesses, divest non-core businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products or employees. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. in addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make these transactions less profitable or unprofitable. moreover, if we fail to identify and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and profitability. integration issues are often complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; 30 table of contents persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. these business combination and investment transactions also have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. moreover, hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. in order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. we may also borrow to finance acquisitions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. in addition, hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. we also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination and investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close. as a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. we could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint 31 table of contents and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 for the fiscal years ended october 31 2011 2010 2009 in billions cash and cash equivalents $ 8.0 $ 10.9 $ 13.3 total debt $ 30.6 $ 22.3 $ 15.8 available borrowing resources (1)(2) $ 14.6 $ 13.8 $ 18.1 (1) in addition to these available borrowing resources, we are able to offer for sale, from time to time, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants under a shelf registration statement filed with the sec in may 2009 (the "2009 shelf registration statement"). (2) available borrowing resources does not include &pound;2.2 billion ($3.6 billion) in borrowing resources under our 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan agreement that was entered into in august 2011 and terminated in november 2011. our cash position remains strong, and we believe our cash balances and anticipated cash flow generated from operations are sufficient to cover cash outlays expected in fiscal 2012. cash flows the following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics from our consolidated statements of cash flow: for the fiscal years ended october 31 2011 2010 2009 in millions net cash provided by operating activities $ 12,639 $ 11,922 $ 13,379 net cash used in investing activities (13,959 ) (11,359 ) (3,580 ) net cash used in financing activities (1,566 ) (2,913 ) (6,673 ) net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (2,886 ) $ (2,350 ) $ 3,126 62 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities increased by approximately $0.7 billion for fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010. the increase was due primarily to higher cash generated through the utilization of operating assets, primarily accounts and financing receivables, and lower utilization of cash resources for payment of accounts payable, the impact of which was partially offset by decrease in net earnings and cash utilized as a result of higher inventory levels. net cash provided by operating activities decreased by approximately $1.5 billion for fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. the decrease was due primarily to an increase in accounts and financing receivables resulting from higher revenues in the fourth quarter and higher payments for account payable activities, the impact of which was partially offset by the increase in net earnings. our key working capital metrics are as follows: october 31 2011 2010 2009 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 51 50 48 days of supply in inventory 27 23 23 days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (52 ) (52 ) (57 ) cash conversion cycle 26 21 14 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("dso") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. dso is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. our accounts receivable balance was $18.2 billion as of october 31, 2011. days of supply in inventory ("dos") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. dos is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our inventory balance was $7.5 billion as of october 31, 2011. days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("dpo") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. dpo is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our accounts payable balance was $14.7 billion as of october 31, 2011. our working capital requirements depend upon our effective management of the cash conversion cycle, which represents effectively the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials to the collection of cash from our customers. the cash conversion cycle is the sum of dso and dos less dpo. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2011 increased by five days as compared to fiscal 2010. the increase in dso was primarily the result of unfavorable impact on receivables from the autonomy acquisition, extended payment terms and an increase in unbilled and aged accounts receivables, the effect of which was offset by a favorable currency impact due to the strengthening u.s. dollar. the increase in dos was a result of higher inventory levels at october 31, 2011 due primarily to a macro economic slow down impacting our consumer businesses, the timing of shipments in our commercial hardware businesses and strategic purchases of certain components. dpo remained flat year over year. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2010 increased by seven days as compared to fiscal 2009. the increase in dso was due primarily to linearity and fewer cash discounts in the fourth quarter. dos 63 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) remained flat year over year. the decrease in dpo was due primarily to a change in purchasing linearity in the fourth quarter. investing activities net cash used in investing activities increased by $2.6 billion for fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010, and increased by approximately $7.8 billion for fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. the increases were due primarily to higher investments in acquisitions in both 2011 and 2010. financing activities net cash used in financing activities decreased by approximately $1.3 billion for fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010. the decrease was due primarily to higher net proceeds from the issuance of debt and a decrease in cash paid for repurchases of our common stock, the impact of which was partially offset by higher net repayment of commercial paper and a decrease in cash received from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. net cash used in financing activities decreased by approximately $3.8 billion for fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. the decrease was due primarily to a higher net issuance of commercial paper, the impact of which was partially offset by increased repurchases of our common stock and lower global debt issuances. for more information on our share repurchase programs, see item 5 and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. capital resources debt levels for the fiscal years ended october 31 2011 2010 2009 in millions, except interest rates and ratios short-term debt $ 8,083 $ 7,046 $ 1,850 long-term debt $ 22,551 $ 15,258 $ 13,980 debt-equity ratio 0.79x 0.55x 0.39x weighted-average interest rate 2.4 % 2.0 % 2.7 % we maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, overall cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. short-term debt and long-term debt increased by $1.0 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, for fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010. the net increase in total debt is due primarily to investments in acquisitions and share repurchases. in fiscal 2010, short-term debt and long-term debt increased by $5.2 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, as compared to fiscal 2009. this was due primarily to spending on acquisitions and share repurchases. our debt-equity ratio is calculated as the carrying value of debt divided by the carrying value of equity. our debt-equity ratio increased by 0.24x in fiscal 2011, due primarily to the issuance of $11.6 billion of u.s dollar global notes and a decrease in shareholders equity by $1.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2011. our debt-equity ratio increased by 0.16x in fiscal 2010, due primarily to the issuance 64 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) of $3.0 billion of u.s dollar global notes and a $4 billion net increase in commercial paper at the end of fiscal 2010. our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the year; it factors in the impact of swapping some of our global notes with fixed interest rates for global notes with floating interest rates. for more information on our interest rate swaps, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. the lower weighted-average interest rate over the past three years is a result of the combination of lower market interest rates and swapping some of our fixed interest obligations associated with some of our fixed global notes for variable rate obligations through interest rate swaps in a declining rates environment. on december 9, 2011, hp issued $3 billion of u.s. dollar global notes under the 2009 shelf registration statement. the global notes consisted of fixed rate notes at market rates with maturities of three, five and ten years from the date of issuance. for more information on our borrowings, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. available borrowing resources at october 31, 2011, we had the following resources available to obtain short-term or long-term financings if we need additional liquidity: at october 31, 2011 in millions 2009 shelf registration statement (1) unspecified commercial paper programs (1) $13,285 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan agreement (1)(2) $ 3,604 uncommitted lines of credit (1) $ 1,300 revolving trade receivables-based facilities (3) $ 701 (1) for more information on our available borrowings resources, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. (2) the 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan agreement was terminated in november 2011. (3) for more information on our revolving trade receivables-based facilities, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. credit ratings our credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. the ratings as of october 31, 2011 were: standard &amp; poor's ratings services moody's investors service fitch ratings services short-term debt ratings a-1 prime-1 f1 long-term debt ratings a a2 a+ 65 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) standard &amp; poor's ratings services downgraded our short-term and long term ratings on november 30, 2011, and fitch ratings services downgraded our long term ratings on december 2, 2011. accordingly, the ratings as of december 14, 2011 were: standard &amp; poor's ratings services moody's investors service fitch ratings services short-term debt ratings a-2 prime-1 f1 long-term debt ratings bbb+ a2 a our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by fitch ratings services and have been under review for possible downgrade by moody's investors service since october 28, 2011. while we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, these downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. in addition, any further downgrade in our credit ratings by any of the three rating agencies may further impact us in a similar manner, and, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital position. we will rely on alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities or the issuance of debt or other securities under our existing shelf registration statement, if necessary to offset reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper. contractual and other obligations the impact that we expect our contractual and other obligations as of october 31, 2011 to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: payments due by period total less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years in millions principal payments on long-term debt (1) $ 25,953 $ 4,238 $ 10,476 $ 4,800 $ 6,439 interest payments on long-term debt (2) 5,064 651 993 643 2,777 operating lease obligations 3,283 811 1,112 650 710 purchase obligations (3) 2,297 2,009 183 40 65 capital lease obligations 423 82 285 18 38 total $ 37,020 $ 7,791 $ 13,049 $ 6,151 $ 10,029 (1) amounts represent the expected principal cash payments relating to our long-term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. (2) amounts represent the expected interest cash payments relating to our long-term debt. we have outstanding interest rate swap agreements accounted for as fair value hedges that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with some of our fixed global notes for variable rate obligations. the impact of these interest rate swaps was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. (3) purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the 66 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) transaction. these purchase obligations are related principally to inventory and other items. purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. purchase obligations also exclude open purchase orders that are routine arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business, as they are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way. even though open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. in addition to the above, at october 31, 2011, we had approximately $2.1 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertainty in income tax positions, which will be partially offset by $293 million of deferred tax assets and interest receivable. these liabilities and related interest and penalties include $77 million expected to be paid within one year. for the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on taxes. funding commitments in fiscal 2012, we expect to contribute approximately $658 million to our pension and post-retirement plan funding. our funding policy is to contribute cash to our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. funding for the years following 2012 would be based on the then current market conditions, actuarial estimates and plan funding status. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on pension activity. as a result of our approved restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $1.1 billion. we expect to make cash payments of approximately $0.9 billion in fiscal 2012 with remaining cash payments through 2016. see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on restructuring activities. guarantees and indemnifications see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from guarantees and indemnifications. litigation and contingencies see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from litigation and contingencies. off-balance sheet arrangements as part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("spes"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. as of october 31, 2011, we are not involved in any material unconsolidated spes. 67 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) hp has revolving trade receivables-based facilities permitting it to sell certain trade receivables to third parties on both a non-recourse and a partial recourse basis. the total aggregate capacity of the facilities was $1.5 billion as of october 31, 2011, including a $1.0 billion partial recourse facility entered into in may 2011 and an aggregate capacity of $0.5 billion in non-recourse facilities. for more information on our revolving trade receivables-based facilities, see note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements in item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference. 68 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 76 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2011 were the euro, the japanese yen, chinese yuan renminbi and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and inter-company lease loan denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. for these types of derivatives and hedges we recognize the gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2011 and 2010, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2011 and 2010. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $96 million and $122 million at october 31, 2011 and october 31, 2010, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then typically use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve primarily u.s. dollar 69 table of contents libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2011 and 2010, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, interest rate swaps and financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2011 and 2010. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $145 million at october 31, 2011 and $28 million at october 31, 2010. equity price risk we are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $117 million at october 31, 2011 and $9 million at october 31, 2010. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of approximately $35 million and $3 million at october 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the aggregate cost of investments in privately-held companies, and other investments was $57 million at october 31, 2011 and $163 million at october 31, 2010. 70 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. there are many challenges facing our business. many of those challenges relate to structural and execution issues, including the following: we need to align our costs with our revenue trajectory; we need to address our underinvestment in r&amp;d and in our internal it systems in recent years, which has made us less competitive, effective and efficient; we need to implement the data gathering and reporting tools and systems needed to track and report on all key business performance metrics so as to most effectively manage a company of our size, scale and diversity; and we need to rebuild our business relationships with our channel partners. we are also facing dynamic market trends, such as the growth of mobility, the increasing demand for hyperscale computing infrastructure, the shift to software-as-a-service and the transition towards cloud computing, and we need to develop products and services that position us to win in a very competitive marketplace. furthermore, we face a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including broad-based weakness in consumer spending, weak demand in the smb and enterprise sectors in europe, and declining growth in some emerging markets, particularly china. we are working to address these challenges. during fiscal 2012, we implemented some leadership and organizational changes, including consolidating our personal computer and printing businesses under the same senior executive leadership, merging our global accounts sales organization into essn, and centralizing all of our marketing and communications activities. we also began implementing cost reduction initiatives, including the company-wide restructuring plan discussed below. in addition, we began making significant changes to our sales force to improve our go-to-market selling activities and reduce cost, and we renewed our focus on developing new products, services and solutions. we also began working to optimize our supply chain, reduce the number of stock keeping units (skus) and platforms, refine our real estate strategy, improve our business processes and implement consistent pricing and promotions. during fiscal 2013, we will be focused on working through the anticipated disruptions expected to accompany the changes made in fiscal 2012 and continuing to implement our cost reduction and operational initiatives. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to these efforts and higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing them. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with implementing these changes given our large portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the number of acquisitions that we have completed in recent years. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. in may 2012, we announced a company-wide restructuring plan expected to be implemented through the end of fiscal 2014. the restructuring plan includes both voluntary early retirement programs and non-voluntary workforce reductions and is expected to result in 29,000 employees exiting the company by the end of that period. significant risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. in addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions 16 table of contents are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across all of those businesses while competing with companies that have much smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. for example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, an alliance partner that also markets a line of competing servers announced that it intended to cease software development for our itanium-based servers, which has resulted in orders for our servers being canceled or delayed. while we have obtained a court ruling finding that the alliance partner has an obligation to continue developing software for our itanium-based servers, we may continue to experience reduced demand. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. the markets in which we do business are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services from numerous companies globally. in addition, competitors in some of the markets in which we compete who have a greater presence in lower-cost jurisdictions may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based solutions may reduce demand for some of our existing hardware products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some 17 table of contents of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with hp's supplies business. other companies have also developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for hp's laserjet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the united states where adequate intellectual property protection may not exist. if we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a changing/hybrid model of it delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for integrated it solutions. to successfully execute on this strategy, we need to continue to further evolve the focus of our organization towards the delivery of integrated it solutions for our customers and to invest and expand into cloud computing, security, and information management and analytics. any failure to successfully execute this strategy could adversely affect our operating results. the process of developing new high technology products, software services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. for example, as we transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain, and protect appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. in addition, after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance by third-party contractors. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to determine appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errata, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our operating results. 18 table of contents economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, in recent periods we have experienced macroeconomic challenges across many geographic regions, particularly in the united states and western europe, broad-based weakness in consumer demand, decelerating growth in china, the impact of the continuing uncertainties associated with the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and austerity measures being implemented or contemplated by various countries in the europe, middle east and africa region. in addition, sustained uncertainty about current global economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions. economic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, hedging expenses and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning, and inventory management that could seriously harm us. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of 19 table of contents whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, and we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or services offerings, resulting in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. in the event that we become committed to purchase components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectibility risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, oms or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate any supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our products. new 20 table of contents products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of components to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, six of our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including shanghai, singapore and india. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products and in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyber attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating 21 table of contents system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of outsourcing services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending could materially adversely affect demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenues. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. moreover, the execution of our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of 22 table of contents variability in our financial results, as the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation in the media or investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, stock price performance or executive team; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hp or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flow from operations, changes in estimates by the investment community or guidance provided by hp and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hp's competitors and other companies in the it industry; investor sentiment with respect to our company, competitors, business partners or industry in general; media coverage of our business and financial performance; any developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hp. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, we are involved in several securities class action litigation matters. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of additional securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain 23 table of contents jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, individuals and groups frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hp and their customers. the number of these claims has increased significantly in recent periods and may continue to increase in the future. if we cannot or do not license infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. finally, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving hp in which groups representing copyright owners have sought to impose upon and collect from hp levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from hp. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving hp and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and the ability of hp to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 65% of our net revenue. in addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including brazil, 24 table of contents russia, india and china. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific hp suppliers and oms; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. as approximately 65% of our sales are from countries outside of the united states, other currencies, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen, can have an impact on hp's results (expressed in u.s. dollars). in particular, the uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain european countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, hp sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. as a result, we could incur significant losses from our hedging activities if our forecasts are incorrect. in addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. gains or 25 table of contents losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. for example, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, the german public prosecutor's office, the u.s. department of justice and the sec have been investigating allegations that certain current and former employees of hp engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion or were involved in kickbacks or other improper payments. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. 26 table of contents if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer. many of the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software features and functionality, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. to maintain our competitive position in these markets, we must successfully develop and introduce new products and services. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are: delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in the price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and challenges of effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand; risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products; and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer as a result of the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in the current products and services of hp and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services business properly. the risks that accompany our services business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the success of our services business is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. we may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their conversion to a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. in addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients in the future. as a result of business downturns or for other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced processing volumes from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for those services. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services in the short- or long-term. in addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able to fully recover our investments in such circumstances. the pricing and other terms of some of our it services agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on the profit margin of our it services business. 27 table of contents some of our it services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. if we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our profitably could suffer. for example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement of our employees could suffer. if that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. if we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. in addition, if we have more employees than we need with certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a reduction in expected revenue. 28 table of contents failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies. those rating agencies, standard &amp; poor's ratings services, fitch ratings services and moody's investors service, downgraded our ratings on november 30, 2011, december 2, 2011 and january 20, 2012, respectively. in addition, fitch ratings services and moody's investors service downgraded our ratings a second time on october 5, 2012 and november 27, 2012, respectively. our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by moody's investors service. these downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in this report. in addition, as discussed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in hp's tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, president obama's administration has announced proposals for other u.s. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect our tax rate. there are also other tax proposals that have been introduced, that are being considered, or that have been enacted by the united states congress or the legislative bodies in foreign jurisdictions that could affect our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our other tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our profitability. 29 table of contents our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and share-based compensation. our share-based incentive awards include stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based restricted units, some of which contain conditions relating to hp's stock price performance and hp's long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. in addition, the value of all of our share-based incentive awards depends on hp's stock price, which declined by nearly 50% during fiscal 2012. if the anticipated value of such share-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the shareholder approval needed to continue granting share-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. the failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 30 table of contents terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to hp, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in afghanistan, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we frequently acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and profitability: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers or other third parties. business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the 31 table of contents veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. hp's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close timely or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. hp has incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. for example, as discussed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, in our third fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.0 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill associated with our enterprise services reporting unit within our services segment and a $1.2 billion impairment charge as a result of an asset impairment analysis of the "compaq" trade name acquired in 2002. in addition, in our fourth fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.8 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill and intangible assets associated with our autonomy corporation plc ("autonomy") reporting unit within our software segment. if there are future changes in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or operating results of our reporting units, we may incur additional goodwill impairment charges. integration issues are often complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business, including the business acquired as a result of any business combination and investment transaction. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations 32 table of contents in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. we could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. 33 table of contents some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which hp could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, hp's directors and officers; specifying that hp stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by hp stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of hp's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to hp stockholder meetings, the board of directors and indemnification; and controlling the procedures for conduct of hp's board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of hp directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, hp also is subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of hp's outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 for the fiscal years ended october 31 2012 2011 2010 in billions cash and cash equivalents $ 11.3 $ 8.0 $ 10.9 total debt $ 28.4 $ 30.6 $ 22.3 available borrowing resources (1)(2) $ 17.4 $ 14.6 $ 13.8 (1) in addition to these available borrowing resources, we are able to offer for sale, from time to time, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants under a shelf registration statement filed with the sec in may 2012 (the "2012 shelf registration statement"). (2) available borrowing resources does not include &pound;2.2 billion ($3.6 billion) in borrowing resources under our 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan agreement that was entered into in august 2011 and terminated in november 2011. our cash position remains strong, and we expect that our cash balances, anticipated cash flow generated from operations and access to capital markets will be sufficient to cover cash outlays expected in fiscal 2013. cash flows the following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics from our consolidated statements of cash flow: for the fiscal years ended october 31 2012 2011 2010 in millions net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,571 $ 12,639 $ 11,922 net cash used in investing activities (3,453 ) (13,959 ) (11,359 ) net cash used in financing activities (3,860 ) (1,566 ) (2,913 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,258 $ (2,886 ) $ (2,350 ) 66 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities decreased by approximately $2.1 billion for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. the decrease was due primarily to lower net earnings and higher utilization of cash resources for payment of accounts payable, the impact of which was partially offset by lower investment in inventory and higher cash generated from collections of accounts and financing receivables. net cash provided by operating activities increased by approximately $0.7 billion for fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. the increase was due primarily to higher cash generated through the utilization of operating assets, primarily accounts and financing receivables, and lower utilization of cash resources for payment of accounts payable, the impact of which was partially offset by decreases in net earnings and cash utilized as a result of higher inventory levels. our key working capital metrics are as follows: october 31 2012 2011 2010 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 49 51 50 days of supply in inventory 25 27 23 days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (53 ) (52 ) (52 ) cash conversion cycle 21 26 21 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("dso") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. dso is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. our accounts receivable balance was $16.4 billion as of october 31, 2012. days of supply in inventory ("dos") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. dos is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our inventory balance was $6.3 billion as of october 31, 2012. days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("dpo") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. dpo is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our accounts payable balance was $13.4 billion as of october 31, 2012. our working capital requirements depend upon our effective management of the cash conversion cycle, which represents effectively the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials to the collection of cash from our customers. the cash conversion cycle is the sum of dso and dos less dpo. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2012 decreased by five days compared to fiscal 2011. the decrease in dso was due primarily to improved collections, an increase in cash discounts and a decline in extended payment terms. additionally our dso benefited from the current-period dso calculation containing a full quarter of revenue from our autonomy acquisition versus the approximately one month of revenue that was included in the prior-period dso calculation. these favorable impacts to dso were partially offset by revenue linearity. the decrease in dos was due to lower inventory balances in most segments as of october 31, 2012. the increase in dpo was primarily due to improved purchasing linearity. 67 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2011 increased by five days as compared to fiscal 2010. the increase in dso was primarily the result of unfavorable impact on receivables from the autonomy acquisition, extended payment terms and an increase in unbilled and aged accounts receivables, the effect of which was offset by a favorable currency impact due to the strengthening u.s. dollar. the increase in dos was a result of higher inventory levels at october 31, 2011 due primarily to a macro economic slowdown impacting our consumer businesses, the timing of shipments in our commercial hardware businesses and strategic purchases of certain components. dpo remained flat year over year. investing activities net cash used in investing activities decreased by $10.5 billion for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, due primarily to lower investments in acquisitions in 2012. net cash used in investing activities increased by approximately $2.6 billion for fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010, due primarily to higher investments in acquisitions in 2011. financing activities net cash used in financing activities increased by approximately $2.3 billion for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. the increase was due primarily to lower net proceeds from the issuance of u.s. dollar global notes and an increase in net repayment of commercial paper, the impact of which was partially offset by lower cash paid for repurchases of our common stock. net cash used in financing activities decreased by approximately $1.3 billion for fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. the decrease was due primarily to higher net proceeds from the issuance of debt and a decrease in cash paid for repurchases of our common stock, the impact of which was partially offset by higher net repayment of commercial paper and a decrease in cash received from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. for more information on our share repurchase programs, see item 5 and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. capital resources debt levels for the fiscal years ended october 31 2012 2011 2010 in millions, except interest rates and ratios short-term debt $ 6,647 $ 8,083 $ 7,046 long-term debt $ 21,789 $ 22,551 $ 15,258 debt-equity ratio 1.25x 0.79x 0.55x weighted-average interest rate 2.95 % 2.4 % 2.0 % we maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, cash needed to support our financing business, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, overall cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. short-term debt and long-term debt decreased by $1.4 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. the net decrease in total debt is due primarily to fewer acquisitions, and lower levels of share repurchases coupled with maturities in some obligations. in fiscal 68 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) 2011, short-term debt and long-term debt increased by $1.0 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, as compared to fiscal 2010. the net increase in total debt is due primarily to investments in acquisitions and share repurchases. during fiscal 2013, $5.5 billion of u.s. dollar global notes will mature. we expect to have sufficient cash, cash from operations and access to capital markets to repay those maturing global notes. our debt-equity ratio is calculated as the carrying value of debt divided by the carrying value of equity. our debt-equity ratio increased by 0.46x in fiscal 2012, due primarily to a decrease in shareholders equity by $16.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2012. our debt-equity ratio increased by 0.24x in fiscal 2011, due primarily to the issuance of $11.6 billion of u.s dollar global notes and a decrease in shareholders equity by $1.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2011. our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the year; it factors in the impact of swapping some of our global notes with fixed interest rates for global notes with floating interest rates. for more information on our interest rate swaps, see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. the low weighted-average interest rate over the past three years is a result of a combination of lower market interest rates and swapping some of our fixed-interest obligations associated with some of our fixed-rate u.s. dollar global notes for variable-rate obligations through interest rate swaps in a declining rate environment. for more information on our borrowings, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. available borrowing resources at october 31, 2012, we had the following resources available to obtain short-term or long-term financings if we need additional liquidity: at october 31, 2012 in millions 2012 shelf registration statement (1) unspecified commercial paper programs (1) $16,135 uncommitted lines of credit (1) $ 1,301 (1) for more information on our available borrowings resources, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. credit ratings our credit risk is evaluated by three independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. the ratings as of october 31, 2012 were: standard &amp; poor's ratings services moody's investors service fitch ratings services short-term debt ratings a-2 prime-2 f2 long-term debt ratings bbb+ a3 a- 69 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our credit ratings were downgraded by fitch ratings services to f2 and a- in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. moody's investors service subsequently downgraded our long-term debt from a3 to baa1 in november 2012. our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by moody's investors service. while we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, these downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. in addition, any further downgrade in our credit ratings by any of the three rating agencies may further impact us in a similar manner, and, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital position. we will rely on alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities or the issuance of debt or other securities under our existing shelf registration statement, if necessary, to offset reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper. contractual and other obligations the impact that we expect our contractual and other obligations as of october 31, 2012 to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: payments due by period total 1 year or less 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years in millions principal payments on long-term debt (1) $ 26,811 $ 5,638 $ 7,411 $ 5,824 $ 7,938 interest payments on long-term debt (2) 5,346 600 1,035 815 2,896 operating lease obligations 3,242 752 1,141 556 793 purchase obligations (3) 1,632 1,131 448 53 capital lease obligations 354 59 251 11 33 total $ 37,385 $ 8,180 $ 10,286 $ 7,259 $ 11,660 (1) amounts represent the expected principal cash payments relating to our long-term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments or discounts and premiums. (2) amounts represent the expected interest cash payments relating to our long-term debt. we have outstanding interest rate swap agreements accounted for as fair value hedges that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed-interest obligations associated with some of our fixed global notes for variable rate obligations. the impact of these interest rate swaps was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. (3) purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. these purchase obligations are related principally to inventory and other items. purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. purchase obligations also exclude open purchase orders that are routine arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business, as they are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way. even though open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. 70 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) income tax obligations in addition to the above, at october 31, 2012, we had approximately $2.3 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertainty in income tax positions, which will be partially offset by $338 million of deferred tax assets and interest receivable. these liabilities and related interest and penalties include $81 million expected to be paid within one year. for the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on taxes. restructuring funding commitments as a result of our approved restructuring plans, we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $2.7 billion. we expect to make cash payments of approximately $1.6 billion in fiscal 2013 with remaining cash payments through fiscal 2016. in addition to these cash expenditures, we expect to fund approximately $833 million of the enhanced early retirement program ("eer") announced in may 2012 through use of our u.s. pension plan assets. the use of plan assets to fund the u.s. eer in fiscal 2012 did not cause us to increase our funding to our u.s. pension plan. see note 8 and note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on our restructuring plans and pension activities, respectively. we expect to use a combination of cash from operations and our available borrowing resources to meet our near-term funding commitments. guarantees and indemnifications see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from guarantees and indemnifications. litigation and contingencies see note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on liabilities that may arise from litigation and contingencies. off-balance sheet arrangements as part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities ("spes"), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. as of october 31, 2012, we are not involved in any material unconsolidated spes. hp has third-party financing arrangements in order to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain partners consisting of revolving short-term financing. the total aggregate capacity of the facilities was $1.5 billion as of october 31, 2012, including a $0.9 billion partial recourse facility entered into in may 2011 and an aggregate capacity of $0.6 billion in non-recourse facilities. for more information on our revolving trade receivables-based facilities, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. 71 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate and equity price risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these three market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price movements and our actual exposures and hedges. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 75 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2012 were the euro, the japanese yen, chinese yuan renminbi and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and inter-company lease loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. for these types of derivatives and hedges we recognize the gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts in the same period as the remeasurement losses and gains of the related foreign currency-denominated exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2012 and 2011, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2012 and 2011. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange loss of $71 million and $96 million at october 31, 2012 and october 31, 2011, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based 72 table of contents floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2012 and 2011, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investment instruments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, interest rate swaps and financing receivables. the discount rates we used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2012 and 2011. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investment instruments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swap positions, of $121 million at october 31, 2012 and $145 million at october 31, 2011. equity price risk we are also exposed to equity price risk inherent in our portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which had an estimated fair value of $59 million at october 31, 2012 and $118 million at october 31, 2011. we monitor our equity investments for impairment on a periodic basis. generally, we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these equity securities. however, we may use derivative transactions to hedge certain positions from time to time. we do not purchase our equity securities with the intent to use them for speculative purposes. a hypothetical 30% adverse change in the stock prices of our publicly traded equity securities would result in a loss in the fair values of our marketable equity securities of approximately $18 million and $35 million at october 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the aggregate cost of investments in privately-held companies, and other investments was $59 million at october 31, 2012 and $57 million at october 31, 2011. 73 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplemental data" of this form 10-k. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. we are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the pc market, the growth of multi-architecture devices running competing operating systems, the market shift towards tablets within mobility, the market shift to cloud-related infrastructure, software, and services, and the growth in software-as-a-service business models. another set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions; our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are going after new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model and go-to-market execution. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the united states, western and northern europe, and certain countries and businesses in asia. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to these efforts and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts given our large portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. in may 2012, we announced a company-wide restructuring plan expected to be implemented through the end of fiscal 2014. the restructuring plan includes both voluntary early retirement programs and non-voluntary workforce reductions. significant risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. in addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, 17 table of contents security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across all of those businesses while competing with companies that have much smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition for our products and services and, as a result, we may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. in addition, the performance of our business critical systems business unit has been affected by the decline in demand for unix servers and concerns about the development of new versions of software to support our itanium-based products. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. if we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a changing and hybrid model of it delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for integrated it solutions. to successfully execute 18 table of contents on this strategy, we need to continue evolving our focus towards the delivery of integrated it solutions for our customers and to continue to invest and expand into cloud computing, security, big data and mobility. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial results. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain, and protect, appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. in addition, after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or the employees of those contractors or subcontractors. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errata, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa ("emea") region, china and other high-growth markets. the u.s. federal government spending cuts that went into effect on march 1, 2013 may further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. economic 19 table of contents weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, particularly our services businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. 20 table of contents if we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue, gross margins and profitability may suffer. many of the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software features and functionality, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. to maintain our competitive position in these markets, we must successfully develop and introduce new products and services. among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are: delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in the price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and challenges of effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand; risks associated with new products meeting customer qualifications and customer evaluation of new products; and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. if we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue and gross margins may decline and our profitability may be harmed. our revenue and gross margin also may suffer as a result of the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. this is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. there also may be overlaps in our current products and services and portfolios we have acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. in addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. 21 table of contents our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning, and inventory management that could seriously harm us. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, and we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or services offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take 22 table of contents advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectibility risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, oms or suppliers could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate any supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations and servers and amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of components to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and cash flows. 23 table of contents business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, six of our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including shanghai, singapore and india. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products and in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 24 table of contents due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 64% of our net revenue. in addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including brazil, russia, india and china. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific hp suppliers and oms; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results (expressed in u.s. dollars). in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and 25 table of contents services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as volatility and currency variations. in addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"). for example, as discussed in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, the german public prosecutor's office, the u.s. department of justice and the securities and exchange commission have been investigating allegations that certain current and former employees of hp engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion. in addition, the u.s. enforcement authorities, as well as the polish central anti-corruption bureau, are conducting investigations into potential fcpa violations by a former employee of an hp subsidiary in connection with certain public-sector transactions in poland, and the u.s. enforcement authorities are conducting investigations into certain other public-sector transactions in russia, poland, the commonwealth of independent states and mexico, among other countries. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers or other third-parties. business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. 26 table of contents our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close timely or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. for example, in our third fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.0 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill associated with our enterprise services reporting unit within our former services segment and a $1.2 billion impairment charge as a result of an asset impairment analysis of the "compaq" trade name acquired in 2002. in addition, in our fourth fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.8 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill and intangible assets associated with autonomy. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. integration issues are often complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations 27 table of contents in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. while we do not currently plan to divest any of our major businesses, we do regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third-parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third-parties. 28 table of contents we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third-parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third-parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third-parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, individuals and groups may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hp and its customers. the number of these claims has increased in recent periods and may continue to increase in the future. if we cannot or do not license infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. finally, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving hp in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from hp levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services business properly. the risks that accompany our services business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the success of our services business is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. we may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their selection of a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. in addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients. as a result of business downturns or for other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced processing volumes from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for 29 table of contents those services. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services. in addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able to fully recover our investments in such circumstances. the pricing and other terms of some of our it services agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third-party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could decrease the cash flows of our it services business. if we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our profitably could suffer. for example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement of our employees could suffer. if that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. if we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. in addition, if we have more employees than we need with certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their 30 table of contents formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a reduction in expected revenue. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hp or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by hp and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hp's competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hp. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, as discussed in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, we are involved in several securities class action litigation matters. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of additional securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. two of those rating agencies, moody's investors service and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, downgraded our ratings once during fiscal 2012, and a third rating agency, fitch ratings, downgraded our ratings twice during 31 table of contents that fiscal year. in addition, moody's investors service downgraded our ratings again in november 2012. our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by moody's investors service. these downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in item 7 of this report. in addition, as discussed in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, there are proposals for tax legislation that have been introduced or that are being considered that could have a significant adverse effect on our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our profitability. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified 32 table of contents executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and share-based compensation. our share-based incentive awards include stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based restricted units, some of which contain conditions relating to hp's stock price performance and hp's long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such share-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the shareholder approval needed to continue granting share-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. the failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyber attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of outsourcing services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could 33 table of contents cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. unforeseen environmental costs could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; 34 table of contents specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with substantially all of those amounts held outside of the united states. we utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. our cash position remains strong, and we expect that our cash balances, anticipated cash flow generated from operations and access to capital markets will be sufficient to cover our expected near-term cash outlays. amounts held outside of the united states are generally utilized to support non-u.s. liquidity needs, although a portion of those amounts may from time to time be subject to short-term intercompany loans into the united states. most of the amounts held outside of the united states 67 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) could be repatriated to the united states but, under current law, would be subject to u.s. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. except for foreign earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the united states, we have provided for the u.s. federal tax liability on these earnings for financial statement purposes. repatriation could result in additional income tax payments in future years. where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, our intent is that cash balances would remain outside of the united states and we would meet liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. we do not expect restrictions or potential taxes incurred on repatriation of amounts held outside of the united states to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. liquidity our cash and cash equivalents, total debt and available borrowing resources for each of the three years ended october 31, were as follows: for the fiscal years ended october 31 2013 2012 2011 in billions cash and cash equivalents $ 12.2 $ 11.3 $ 8.0 total debt $ 22.6 $ 28.4 $ 30.6 available borrowing resources (1)(2) $ 17.8 $ 17.4 $ 14.6 (1) in addition to these available borrowing resources, we are able to offer for sale, from time to time, in one or more offerings, an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants under a shelf registration statement filed with the securities and exchange commission in may 2012 (the "2012 shelf registration statement"). (2) available borrowing resources does not include &pound;2.2 billion ($3.6 billion) in borrowing resources under our 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan agreement that was entered into in august 2011 and terminated in november 2011. sources and uses of cash the following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics from our consolidated statements of cash flow: for the fiscal years ended october 31 2013 2012 2011 in millions net cash provided by operating activities $ 11,608 $ 10,571 $ 12,639 net cash used in investing activities (2,803 ) (3,453 ) (13,959 ) net cash used in financing activities (7,943 ) (3,860 ) (1,566 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 862 $ 3,258 $ (2,886 ) 68 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) operating activities net cash provided by operating activities increased by $1.0 billion for fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. the increase was due primarily to the impact of improved payment terms from suppliers and a reduction in payments associated with webos contract cancellations, the impact of which was partially offset due to higher cash utilization in inventory. net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $2.1 billion for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. the decrease was due primarily to lower net earnings and higher utilization of cash resources for payment of accounts payable, the impact of which was partially offset by lower investments in inventory and higher cash generated from collections of accounts and financing receivables. our key working capital metrics are as follows: october 31 2013 2012 2011 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable 49 49 51 days of supply in inventory 24 25 27 days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (56 ) (53 ) (52 ) cash conversion cycle 17 21 26 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("dso") measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. dso is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue. our accounts receivable balance was $15.9 billion as of october 31, 2013. days of supply in inventory ("dos") measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. dos is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our inventory balance was $6.0 billion as of october 31, 2013. days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable ("dpo") measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. dpo is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of goods sold. our accounts payable balance was $14.0 billion as of october 31, 2013. our working capital requirements depend on effectively managing the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of inventory to the collection of cash from our customers. the cash conversion cycle is the sum of dso and dos less dpo. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2013 decreased by 4 days compared to fiscal 2012 and is below what we expect to be a long-term sustainable rate. the dso remained flat year over year. the decrease in dos was due to lower inventory balances, relative to the rate of decline in cost of goods sold, in most segments as of october 31, 2013. the increase in dpo was primarily due to favorable payment term changes partially offset by unfavorable purchasing linearity. the cash conversion cycle for fiscal 2012 decreased by five days compared to fiscal 2011. the decrease in dso was due primarily to improved collections, an increase in cash discounts and a decline in extended payment terms. additionally, our dso benefited from the current-period dso calculation containing a full quarter of revenue from our autonomy acquisition versus the approximately one month of revenue that was included in the prior-period dso calculation. these favorable impacts to 69 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) dso were partially offset by revenue linearity. the decrease in dos was due to lower inventory balances in most segments as of october 31, 2012. the increase in dpo was primarily due to improved purchasing linearity. investing activities net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.7 billion for fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, due primarily to lower investments in property, plant and equipment and higher net sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities. net cash used in investing activities decreased by $10.5 billion for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, due primarily to lower payments for acquisitions in 2012. financing activities net cash used in financing activities increased by $4.1 billion for fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. the increase was due primarily to higher maturities of debt and net repayments of commercial paper. net cash used in financing activities increased by approximately $2.3 billion for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. the increase was due primarily to lower net proceeds from the issuance of u.s. dollar global notes and an increase in net repayment of commercial paper, the impact of which was partially offset by lower cash paid for repurchases of our common stock. for more information on our share repurchase programs, see item 5 and note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which are incorporated herein by reference. capital resources debt levels for the fiscal years ended october 31 2013 2012 2011 in millions, except interest rates and ratios short-term debt $ 5,979 $ 6,647 $ 8,083 long-term debt $ 16,608 $ 21,789 $ 22,551 debt-equity ratio 0.82x 1.25x 0.79x weighted-average interest rate 3.0 % 3.0 % 2.4 % we maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, overall cost of capital and our targeted capital structure. short-term debt and long-term debt decreased by $0.6 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, for fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. both net decreases were due primarily to higher maturities of debt and net repayments of commercial paper. the issuances and repayments of commercial paper were $16.1 billion and $16.2 billion in fiscal 2013 and $12.2 billion and $15.0 billion in fiscal 2012, respectively. short-term debt and long-term debt decreased by $1.4 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. the net decrease in total debt is due primarily to fewer acquisitions and lower levels of share repurchases coupled with debt maturities. during fiscal 2014, $4.9 billion of u.s. dollar global notes is scheduled to mature. for more information on our borrowings, see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. 70 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) our debt-equity ratio is calculated as the carrying value of debt divided by the carrying value of equity. our debt-equity ratio decreased by 0.43x in fiscal 2013, due to a decrease in total debt balances of $5.8 billion coupled with an increase in stockholders equity by $4.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2013. our debt-equity ratio increased by 0.46x in fiscal 2012, due primarily to a decrease in stockholders equity of $16.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2012. our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. for more information on our interest rate swaps, see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. available borrowing resources at october 31, 2013, we had the following resources available to obtain short-term or long-term financings if we need additional liquidity: at october 31, 2013 in millions 2012 shelf registration statement (1) unspecified commercial paper programs (1) $16,173 uncommitted lines of credit (1) $ 1,593 (1) for more information on our available borrowings resources, see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. credit ratings our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them. our ratings as of october 31, 2013 were: standard &amp; poor's ratings services moody's investors service fitch ratings short-term debt ratings a-2 prime-2 f2 long-term debt ratings bbb+ baa1 a- two of the major independent rating agencies, moody's investors service and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, downgraded our ratings once during fiscal 2012, and a third rating agency, fitch ratings, downgraded our ratings twice during that fiscal year. moody's investors service also downgraded our long-term debt from a3 to baa1 in november 2012. our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by moody's investors service. while we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our debt, previous downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper and have required the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. in addition, any further downgrade in our credit ratings by any of the rating agencies may further impact us in a similar manner, and, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital position. we expect to rely on alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities or the issuance of debt or other securities 71 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) under our existing shelf registration statement, if necessary to offset reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper. contractual and other obligations the impact that we expect our contractual and other obligations as of october 31, 2013 to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: payments due by period total 1 year or less 1-3 years 3-5 years more than 5 years in millions principal payments on long-term debt (1) $ 21,420 $ 4,971 $ 5,534 $ 3,728 $ 7,187 interest payments on long-term debt (2) 4,591 565 951 672 2,403 operating lease obligations 2,900 728 1,004 445 723 purchase obligations (3) 2,166 1,191 706 269 capital lease obligations 289 229 27 8 25 total (4)(5)(6) $ 31,366 $ 7,684 $ 8,222 $ 5,122 $ 10,338 (1) amounts represent the expected principal cash payments relating to our long-term debt and do not include any fair value adjustments, discounts or premiums. (2) amounts represent the expected interest payments relating to our long-term debt. we have outstanding interest rate swap agreements accounted for as fair value hedges that have the economic effect of changing fixed interest rates associated with some of our global notes to variable interest rates. the impact of these interest rate swaps was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. (3) purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. these purchase obligations are related principally to inventory and other items. purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. purchase obligations also exclude open purchase orders that are routine arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business, as they are difficult to quantify in a meaningful way. even though open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust terms based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. (4) in fiscal 2014, we expect to contribute approximately $617 million to our non-u.s. pension plans and approximately $33 million to cover benefit payments to u.s. non-qualified plan participants. we expect to pay approximately $109 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans. our policy is to fund our pension plans so that they meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities. expected contributions to our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are excluded from the table because they do not represent contractual cash outflows as they are dependent on numerous factors, which may result in a wide range of outcomes. see note 15 to the consolidated financial 72 table of contents hewlett-packard company and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (continued) statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information about our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans. (5) we expect future cash expenditures of approximately $1.9 billion in connection with our approved restructuring plans. we expect to make cash payments of approximately $1.4 billion in fiscal 2014 with remaining cash payments to be made through fiscal 2017. payments for restructuring have been excluded from the table as they are not contractual and there remains uncertainty as to the timing of these payments. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on restructuring activities. (6) in fiscal 2013, we had approximately $3 billion of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions. these liabilities and related interest and penalties include $104 million expected to be made within one year. for the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. as we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any cash payments to the tax authorities as a result of future settlements, these obligations are not included in the table. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on our uncertain tax positions. off-balance sheet arrangements as part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. we have third-party financing arrangements consisting of revolving short-term financing intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. the total aggregate capacity of the facilities was $1.4 billion as of october 31, 2013, including an aggregate capacity of $0.8 billion in non-recourse facilities and a $0.6 billion partial recourse facility. for more information on our third-party financing arrangements, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, which is incorporated herein by reference. 73 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures of hp. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair values for each of these exposures are outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 75 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2013 were the euro, the japanese yen, chinese yuan renminbi and the british pound. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural foreign currency hedge for other offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or the currency is difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2013 and 2012, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2013 and 2012. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $80 million and $71 million at october 31, 2013 and october 31, 2012, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to our debt and investment portfolios and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we then often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk 74 table of contents exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2013 and 2012, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2013 and 2012. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $95 million at october 31, 2013 and $121 million at october 31, 2012. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplemental data" of this form 10-k. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. we are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the pc market, the growth of multi-architecture devices running competing operating systems, the market shift towards tablets within mobility, the market shift to cloud-related infrastructure, software, and services, and the growth in software-as-a-service business models. another set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions; our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are going after new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model and go-to-market execution. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the united states, central eastern europe and russia, and certain countries and businesses in asia. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to these efforts and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts given our large portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. in may 2012, we announced a company-wide restructuring plan. the restructuring plan includes both voluntary early retirement programs and non-voluntary workforce reductions. significant risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the united states, particularly in europe and asia, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. in addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. these estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. competitive pressures could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, 18 table of contents security, availability of application software, and internet infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across all of those businesses while competing with companies that have much smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of these product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than our businesses that compete against them. industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition for our products and services and, as a result, we may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. in addition, the performance of our business critical systems business unit has been affected by the decline in demand for unix servers and concerns about the development of new versions of software to support our itanium-based products. revenue and margins also could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices and the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of hp's laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. if we cannot successfully execute on our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market products, services and solutions that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a changing and hybrid model of it delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for integrated it solutions. to successfully execute 19 table of contents on this strategy, we need to continue evolving our focus towards the delivery of integrated it solutions for our customers and to continue to invest and expand into cloud computing, security, big data and mobility. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial results. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain, and protect, appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. in addition, after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or the employees of those contractors or subcontractors. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errata, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. our plan to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not be completed in accordance with the expected plans or anticipated timeline, or at all, and will involve significant time and expense, which could disrupt or adversely affect our business. on october 6, 2014, we announced plans to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies. the separation, which is currently targeted to be completed by the end of fiscal 2015, is subject to approval by our board of directors of the final terms of the separation and market, regulatory and certain other conditions. unanticipated developments, including changes in the competitive conditions of hewlett-packard enterprise's and hp inc.'s respective markets, possible delays in obtaining various tax opinions or rulings, regulatory approvals or clearances, the uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in executing the separation, could delay or prevent the 20 table of contents completion of the proposed separation, or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are different or less favorable than expected. we have established a separation management office tasked with driving the separation process. we expect that the process of completing the proposed separation will be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate and may not yield a discernible benefit if the separation is not completed. executing the proposed separation will require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. we may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees during the pendency of the separation and following its completion, which could harm our businesses. the separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. as independent publicly-traded companies, hewlett-packard enterprise and hp inc. will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect their respective business, financial condition and results of operations. further, there can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred. the proposed separation may result in disruptions to, and negatively impact our relationships with, our customers and other business partners. uncertainty related to the proposed separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships, or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. these disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. the effect of such disruptions could be exacerbated by any delays in the completion of the separation. the separation could result in substantial tax liability. we intend to obtain an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation will qualify, for both hp and its stockholders, as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in addition, we intend to obtain a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the "irs") and/or one or more opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the separation for hp and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinions of outside counsel and any irs private letter ruling will be based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel or the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and/or irs private letter ruling may be affected. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in addition, we may incur certain tax costs in connection with the separation, including non-u.s. tax expense resulting from separations in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. 21 table of contents economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses. our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa ("emea") region, china and other high-growth markets. the u.s. federal government spending cuts that went into effect on march 1, 2013 may further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, particularly our services businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and 22 table of contents maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and profitability could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. other distribution risks are described below. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness and industry consolidation. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules. given the wide variety 23 table of contents of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning, and inventory management that could seriously harm us. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described below. shortages. occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. hp represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by hp with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, and we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or services offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. oversupply. in order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. contractual terms. as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectibility risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these actions by our competitors, oms or suppliers could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. 24 table of contents contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single source suppliers. our use of single source suppliers for certain components could exacerbate any supplier issues. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs, workstations and servers and amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of components to hp. the loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and cash flows. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, six of our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including shanghai, singapore and india. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products and in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general 25 table of contents infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of such quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. sales outside the united states make up approximately 65% of our net revenue. in addition, an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including brazil, russia, india and china. our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific hp suppliers and oms; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; 26 table of contents differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results (expressed in u.s. dollars). in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as volatility and currency variations. in addition, our hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"). for example, as discussed in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the german public prosecutor's office has been investigating allegations that certain current and former employees of hp engaged in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion. in addition, the polish central anti-corruption bureau is conducting investigations into potential fcpa violations by a former employee of an hp subsidiary in connection with certain public-sector transactions in poland. although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 27 table of contents any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are different than expected. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing benefits of a business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers or other third-parties. business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future may result, in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. 28 table of contents an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close timely or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. for example, in our third fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.0 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill associated with our enterprise services reporting unit within our former services segment and a $1.2 billion impairment charge as a result of an asset impairment analysis of the "compaq" trade name acquired in 2002. in addition, in our fourth fiscal quarter of 2012, we recorded an $8.8 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill and intangible assets associated with autonomy. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. integration issues are often complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees into hp, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. while we do not currently plan to divest any of our major businesses, we do regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic 29 table of contents objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our competitive position. because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third-parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third-parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third-parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third-parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, individuals and groups may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hp and its customers. the number of these claims has increased in recent periods and may continue to increase in the future. if we cannot or do not license infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. 30 table of contents finally, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving hp in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from hp levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services business properly. the risks that accompany our services business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the success of our services business is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. we may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their selection of a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. in addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients. as a result of business downturns or for other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced processing volumes from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for those services. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services. in addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able to fully recover our investments in such circumstances. the pricing and other terms of some of our it services agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could decrease the revenues and profitability of our it services business. 31 table of contents some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third-party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could decrease the cash flows of our it services business. if we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our profitably could suffer. for example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement of our employees could suffer. if that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. if we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. in addition, if we have more employees than we need with certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a reduction in expected revenue. hp's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp's stock difficult to predict. hp's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or 32 table of contents investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hp or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by hp and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hp's competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hp. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hp's performance also may affect the price of hp stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, as discussed in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, we are involved in several securities class action litigation matters. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of additional securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. two of those rating agencies, moody's investors service and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, downgraded our ratings once during fiscal 2012, and a third rating agency, fitch ratings, downgraded our ratings twice during that fiscal year. in addition, moody's investors service downgraded our ratings again in november 2012. our credit ratings remain under negative outlook by moody's investors service. past downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of hp's consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in item 7 of this report. in addition, as discussed in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. 33 table of contents unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, there are proposals for tax legislation that have been introduced or that are being considered that could have a significant adverse effect on our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our profitability. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and share-based compensation. our share-based incentive awards include stock options, restricted stock units and performance-based restricted units, some of which contain conditions relating to hp's stock price performance and hp's long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such share-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the shareholder approval needed to continue granting share-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. the failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyber attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and 34 table of contents deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of outsourcing services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. 35 table of contents unforeseen environmental costs could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non- compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hp. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hp stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hp stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 75 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2014 were the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2014 and 2013, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2014 and 2013. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $62 million and $80 million at october 31, 2014 and october 31, 2013, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. 78 table of contents the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2014 and 2013, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2014 and 2013. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $80 million at october 31, 2014 and $95 million at october 31, 2013. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors. the following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. these risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this form 10-k or elsewhere. the following information should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k. because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. we are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the pc market, the growth of multi-architecture devices running competing operating systems and movement to continuous ink supply systems. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions; our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in central and eastern europe and russia, and certain countries and businesses in asia. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given our large and diverse portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the ongoing integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or 18 table of contents specialize in one or more of our product lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, growing demand for an increasing array of mobile computing devices has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. in addition, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our laserjet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with our printing supplies business. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products, services and solutions to meet the demands of a continually changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. to successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, and innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 table of contents the process of developing new high-technology products, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, to offset industry declines in some of our businesses, we must successfully grow in adjacencies such as copier printers, maintain our strong position in graphics and execute on our strategy to grow commercial mobility by providing specialized products and services to address the needs of our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's lifecycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer. in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third-parties. if we are unable to determine the cause or find an appropriate solution to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. 20 table of contents global economic events and uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate and currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro or the weakness of the japanese yen, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue, financial condition and, to a lesser extent, our cost of sales. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa region, china and certain other high-growth markets. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products and services from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products and services. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products and services, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. we also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. in addition, our business may be disrupted if we are unable to obtain equipment, parts or components from our suppliers and our suppliers from their suppliers due to the insolvency of key suppliers or the inability of key suppliers to obtain credit. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on 21 table of contents changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in hardware and related services spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or the loss of retail shelf space. moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. 22 table of contents our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. for example, our pc business relies heavily upon oms to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those oms to fulfill demand for our pc products. we represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these oms, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular om could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the om and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that om. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of 23 table of contents favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. in addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same oms and suppliers that we utilize. our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain oms and suppliers could be limited. the practice employed by our pc business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to its oms may create large supplier receivables with the oms that, depending on the financial condition of the oms, may create collectability risks. in addition, certain of our oms and suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. for example, we rely on canon for laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. we also rely on intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our pcs and workstations, and we rely on amd to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for other products. some of those processors are customized for our products. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from intel, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 24 table of contents business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations. we also rely on major logistics hubs primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be cancelled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. consumer sales are often higher in the fourth calendar quarter compared to other quarters due in part to seasonal holiday demand. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. moreover, to the extent that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 25 table of contents due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. sales outside the united states made up approximately 64% of our net revenue for fiscal 2015. in addition, a portion of our business activity is being conducted in emerging markets. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and oems; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on manufacturers in taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the "fcpa"). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 26 table of contents any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third-parties or market trends. certain prior business combination and investment transactions entered into by hewlett-packard company resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, goodwill and asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, asset impairment charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third-parties or their representatives. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of contents if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. if there are future decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors not to defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; 28 table of contents persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third-parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plan and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we announced a restructuring plan in september 2015 to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plan, including details regarding the plan announced in september 2015, see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. for example, our enforcement of inkjet printer supplies ip against infringers may be successfully challenged or our ip may be successfully circumvented. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties . some of our business and some of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third-parties. we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third-parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third-parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. for example, some of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. these third-party software components may become obsolete, 29 table of contents defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third-parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement are commonplace in the it industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third-parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hp inc. and our customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. further, our results of operations and cash flows have been and could continue to be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees. in certain countries (primarily in europe), proceedings are ongoing or have been concluded involving our company in which groups representing copyright owners have sought or are seeking to impose upon and collect from hp inc. levies upon equipment (such as pcs, mfds and printers) alleged to be copying devices under applicable laws. other such groups have also sought to modify existing levy schemes to increase the amount of the levies that can be collected from us. other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies on these types of devices. the total amount of the copyright levies will depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which are affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving us and other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, and could be substantial. consequently, the ultimate impact of these copyright levies or similar fees, and our ability to recover such amounts through increased prices, remains uncertain. 30 table of contents the allocation of intellectual property rights between hewlett packard enterprise company ("hewlett packard enterprise") and hp inc. as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hewlett-packard company allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. the intellectual property assets relevant to their businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. will retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. there is a risk that the joint brand holding structure may impair the enforcement of hp inc.'s trademark rights against third parties that infringe them. furthermore, as a result of this shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise could also adversely affect the reputation of hp inc. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, hp inc. will no longer have ownership of intellectual property allocated to hewlett packard enterprise and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement, patent licensing and cross-licensing, our ability to sell our products or services, our competitive position in the industry and our ability to enter new product markets. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our services business properly. the risks that accompany our services business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: the success of our services business is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. we may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their selection of a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. in addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients. as a result of business downturns or for other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced business from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for those services. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services. in addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able to fully recover our investments in such circumstances. the pricing and other terms of some of our service agreements require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the profit margin of our services business. some of our service agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements may involve the development and deployment of new technologies. varying degrees of performance risk exist in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could harm the financial performance of our services business. 31 table of contents if we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our financial performance could suffer. for example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement of our employees could suffer. if that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. if we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. in addition, if we have more employees than we need with certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, hewlett-packard company has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. hewlett-packard company's stock price has historically fluctuated, and our stock price may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of hp inc.'s stock difficult to predict. our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or our financial outlook and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by our competitors and other companies in the it industry; 32 table of contents developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of our share repurchases. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies. fitch ratings, moody's investor service and standard &amp; poor's rating services downgraded hewlett-packard company's ratings in the past. past downgrades have increased the cost of borrowing under our credit facilities, have reduced market capacity for our commercial paper, and may require the posting of additional collateral under some of our derivative contracts. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in item 7 of this report. in addition, as discussed in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, we cannot assure you that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of 33 table of contents new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, if circumstances change such that we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, future income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from historical amounts and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, there are proposals for tax legislation that have been introduced or that are being considered that could have a significant adverse effect on our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data 34 table of contents about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products, including batteries. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations, and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed 35 table of contents retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hp inc. deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hp inc. could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our stock. risks related to the separation the separation of hewlett-packard company into two independent publicly-traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. on november 1, 2015, we completed the separation of our enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses from its personal systems and printing businesses. the process of completing the separation has involved significant costs and expenses. uncertainty related to the separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in our existing business relationships, or cause them to consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. these disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. as an independent publicly-traded company we are a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 table of contents the separation could result in substantial tax liability. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the separation qualified, for both the company and our stockholders, as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(d)(1)(d) and 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in addition, we obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the "irs") and opinions of outside counsel regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the separation for the company and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinions of outside counsel and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to outside counsel and the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinions and irs private letter ruling may be affected. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgement but is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the separation, including non-u.s. tax expenses resulting from the separation in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separation, which may be material. if the separation or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or hewlett packard enterprise could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. hewlett packard enterprise or hp inc. may fail to perform under the transaction agreements executed as part of the separation. in connection with the separation, hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. entered into several agreements, including among others a transition services agreement, a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a real estate matters agreement, a commercial agreement and an it service agreement. the transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a transition period after the separation. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the commercial agreement establishes a bilateral relationship between hewlett packard enterprise and us for the purchase and sale of commercially available products and services for internal use, incorporation and bundling in oem products and services, resale to customers and use in the provision of managed services to customers, as well as joint customer pursuits and joint development activities. the it service agreement provides for the performance by one of hewlett packard enterprise's subsidiaries of certain application development and maintenance and it infrastructure services for us. we will rely on hewlett packard enterprise to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hewlett packard enterprise is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 79 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2015 were the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan renminbi and the japanese yen. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and at times, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2015 and 2014, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2015 and 2014. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $72 million and $62 million at october 31, 2015 and october 31, 2014, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. 83 table of contents the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2015 and 2014, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2015 and 2014. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $119 million at october 31, 2015 and $80 million at october 31, 2014. 84 table of contents