risk factors 11 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through pricing and continuous improvement. expanding international sales subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its 11 independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers and distributors purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. changes in general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. for instance, the european region has faced an ongoing recession, which resulted in lower consumer confidence, high unemployment and constrained credit that negatively impacted retail motorcycle sales. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. retail sales of the company's independent dealers may be impacted by weather. the company has observed that abnormally cold and/or wet conditions in a region could have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles. reduced demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles ultimately leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to implement this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies. as the company incorporates new and different features and technology into its products, the company must protect its intellectual property from imitators and ensure its products do not infringe the intellectual property of other companies. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. retail sales of the company's independent dealers may be adversely impacted by declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supplies of new motorcycles. the company has observed that when prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles have declined, it has had the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). further, introduction of new motorcycle models with significantly different functionality, technology or other customer satisfiers can result in lower 12 customer demand for used motorcycles, resulting in declining prices for those used motorcycles, and prior model year new motorcycles. also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, those steps may not be effective, or the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. the company has several large, strategic information system projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company and its independent dealers must successfully accommodate a seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers and distributors. the company implemented flexible production at its york, pennsylvania facility in the first half of 2013 and began flexible production at its kansas city, missouri facility in the first half of 2014. any difficulties in implementing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company and its independent dealers and distributors must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company and its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company relies on third parties to perform certain operating and administrative functions for the company. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, these suppliers may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. in light of the amount and types of functions that the company has outsourced, these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by the difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the company's financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company's cost of borrowing could increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. 13 the company's financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer, including the company's independent dealers and distributors, to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. while hdfs continued to experience historically low levels of retail credit losses during 2013, the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals in the sub-prime lending environment. credit losses are also adversely impacted by increases in the frequency of loss and by decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company has a number of competitors, some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the markets in which the company competes, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. the company's responses to these competitive pressures, or its failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of harley-davidson motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to both core customers and outreach customers such as women, young adults and ethnically diverse adults. the company must also execute its multi-generational and multi-cultural strategy without adversely impacting the strength of the brand with core customers. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. shifting foreign exchange rates can adversely affect the company's revenue and margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to some extent to attempt to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, commodity price and interest rate risks, these instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including skilled labor, executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including 14 executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company's products, the company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its operating ethics and corporate governance practices. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to the company's disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company's international sales operations may also be adversely affected by u.s. laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency (epa), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 15 tax - the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. environmental - the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. financial services - the company's financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. congress has previously considered and may in the future impose additional regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. depending on the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations, the interpretation of laws and regulations and the specific facts and circumstances involved, violations of or non-compliance with these laws may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages or penalties and administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders, and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business. noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines, criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed in ways that are adverse to hdfs, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that laws and regulations will not attempt to limit the interest rates charged by hdfs, any of which may adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) was passed into law. the dodd-frank act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial services industry is still assessing the impacts. congress detailed some significant changes, but the dodd-frank act leaves many details to be determined by regulation and further study. the full impact will not be fully known for years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted by the appropriate agencies, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by impacted stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the bureau of consumer financial protection (cfpb), housed in the federal reserve. the cfpb has been granted significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet known. compliance with the law may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required to comply with the regulations. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. u.s. public company - in addition, the company is also subject to policies and actions of the sec and new york stock exchange (nyse). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. 16 a cybersecurity breach involving digital consumer or employee personal data may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party vendors receive and store digital personal information in connection with its human resources operations, financial services operations, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to the company's operations. to the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to the company's data, or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to the company's reputation, affect its relationships with customers, lead to claims against the company and ultimately harm the company's business. in addition, the company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in pennsylvania, missouri and wisconsin will expire in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. new regulations related to conflict minerals will cause the company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. the sec adopted inquiry, diligence and additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries, or "conflict minerals", that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. the minerals that the rules cover are commonly referred to as "3tg" and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. these rules became effective in 2013, and they impose a requirement for public companies to make disclosures by may 2014 relating to 2013 activities. implementation of the new disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that the company uses in the manufacture of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to determine the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in its products that are sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries or determine that its products are "conflict free", then the company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others. additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" minerals, if the company chooses to use only conflict minerals that are "conflict free", the company cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. accordingly, 17 the company could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. the company must detect issues with the company's motorcycles or manufacturing processes to avoid recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or litigation, and delays in new model launches. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes to ensure high quality products are shipped to dealers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, product recalls, conventional warranty claims, and product liability or unconventional warranty claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflect those in the financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates. further, shipping products with poor quality may also adversely affect the company's reputation. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company's most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar, the japanese yen and the brazilian real. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of the euro, the australian dollar and the japanese yen fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2013 , the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar and japanese yen foreign currency contracts was $299.6 million . the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $30.2 million as of december 31, 2013 . further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 46risk factors 11 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on its long-term business strategy and the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through pricing and continuous improvement. 11 changes in general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. shifting foreign exchange rates can adversely affect the company's revenue and margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to some extent to attempt to manage a portion of its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the company does not attempt to manage its entire expected exposure, and these instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers and distributors purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. a cybersecurity breach involving digital consumer or employee personal data may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party vendors receive and store digital personal information in connection with its human resources operations, financial services operations, e-commerce, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to the company's operations. to the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to the company's data, or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to the company's reputation, affect its relationships with customers, lead to claims against the company and ultimately harm the company's business. in addition, the company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. expanding international sales and operations subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales and operations is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. 12 retail sales of the company's independent dealers may be impacted by weather. the company has observed that abnormally cold and/or wet conditions in a region could have the effect of reducing demand or changing the timing for purchases of new harley-davidson motorcycles. reduced demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles ultimately leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company's international sales operations may also be adversely affected by u.s. laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency (epa), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. tax - the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. environmental - the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes and related changes in consumer preferences, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. financial services - the company's financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. congress has previously considered and may in the future impose additional regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. depending on the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations, the interpretation of laws and regulations and the specific facts and circumstances involved, violations of or non-compliance with these laws may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages or penalties and administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders, and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business. noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines, criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed in ways that are adverse to hdfs, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that laws and regulations will not attempt to limit the interest rates charged by hdfs, any of which may adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) was passed into law. the dodd-frank act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial services industry is still assessing the impacts. congress detailed some significant changes, but the dodd-frank act leaves many details to be determined by 13 regulation and further study. the full impact will not be fully known for years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted by the appropriate agencies, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by impacted stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the consumer financial protection bureau (cfpb), housed in the federal reserve. the cfpb has been granted significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet known. compliance with the law may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required to comply with the regulations. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. the cfpb staff recently proposed a rule that would expand the scope of its supervisory authority to include non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market. the cfpb published this proposed rule on october 8, 2014, and if this rule is finalized as proposed, the larger participant threshold set by the cfpb would include harley-davidson credit corp. and other harley-davidson entities, which would result in cfbp supervision and periodic examinations of those entities. u.s. public company - the company is also subject to policies and actions of the sec and new york stock exchange (nyse). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems relating to raw materials and components such as unfavorable pricing, poor quality, or untimely delivery. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must prevent and detect issues with its products, components purchased from suppliers, and its and its suppliers' manufacturing processes to reduce the risk of recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or litigation, increased product liability claims or litigation, delays in new model launches, and inquiries or investigations by regulatory agencies. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, and ensure that its suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, to ensure high quality products are sold to retail customers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, product recalls, inquiries or investigations from regulatory agencies, warranty claims, and product liability claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflects those in its financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates. further, selling products with poor quality and the announcement of recalls may also adversely affect the company's reputation and brand strength. the company relies on third parties to perform certain operating and administrative functions for the company. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, these suppliers may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. in light of the amount and types of functions that the company has outsourced, these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company's products, the company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of 14 damages could be substantial. the company's reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to the company's disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company's marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of harley-davidson motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to both core customers and outreach customers such as women, young adults and ethnically diverse adults. the company must also execute its multi-generational and multi-cultural strategy without adversely impacting the strength of the brand with core customers. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. the company has several large, strategic information system projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its operating ethics and corporate governance practices. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies. as the company incorporates new and different features and technology into its products, the company must protect its intellectual property from imitators and ensure its products do not infringe the intellectual property of other companies. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to a global marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. 15 the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to execute this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company and its independent dealers must successfully accommodate a seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers and distributors. prior to 2013, the company historically produced and shipped motorcycles at wholesale to its north america region dealers at approximately the same level throughout the year. the company implemented flexible production at its york, pennsylvania facility in the first half of 2013 and began flexible production at its kansas city, missouri facility in the first half of 2014. as a result of this capability, the company's motorcycle production and wholesale shipments now correlate more closely to the retail selling season in the north america region. any difficulties in executing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company and its independent dealers and distributors must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company and its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. retail sales of the company's independent dealers may be adversely impacted by declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supplies of new motorcycles. the company has observed that when prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles have declined, it can have the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). further, introduction of new motorcycle models with significantly different functionality, technology or other customer satisfiers can result in lower customer demand for used motorcycles, resulting in declining prices for those used motorcycles, and prior model-year new motorcycles. also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, those steps may not be effective, or the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in pennsylvania, missouri and wisconsin will expire in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company's business and results of operations. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. 16 the ability of the company to expand international sales may be impacted by existing or new laws and regulations that impose motorcycle licensing restrictions and limit access to roads and highways. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. a number of countries have tiered motorcycle licensing requirements that limit the ability of new and younger riders to obtain licenses to operate the company's motorcycles, and many countries are considering the implementation of such requirements. these requirements only allow new and/or younger riders to operate smaller motorcycles for certain periods of time. riders typically are only permitted to obtain a license to ride larger motorcycles upon reaching certain ages and/or having been licensed to ride smaller motorcycles for a certain period of time, and only after passing additional tests and paying additional fees. these requirements pose obstacles to large displacement motorcycle ownership. other countries have laws and regulations that prohibit motorcycles from being operated on certain roads and highways. these types of laws and regulations could adversely impact the company's plans to expand international sales. the company has a number of competitors, some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the markets in which the company competes, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. the company's responses to these competitive pressures, or its failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including skilled labor, executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company's financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the company's financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company's cost of borrowing could increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company's financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer, including the company's independent dealers and distributors, to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. while hdfs experienced 17 historically low levels of retail credit losses during 2013 and 2014, the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may continue to increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals in the sub-prime lending environment. increases in the frequency of loss and decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles also adversely impact credit losses. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. regulations related to conflict minerals will cause the company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. the sec adopted inquiry, diligence and additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries, or "conflict minerals", that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. the minerals that the rules cover are commonly referred to as "3tg" and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. these rules impose a requirement for public companies to make certain disclosures relating to activities with conflict minerals. compliance with the disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that the company uses in the manufacturing of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to determine the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in its products that are sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries or determine that its products are "conflict free", then the company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others. additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" minerals, if the company chooses to use only conflict minerals that are "conflict free", the company cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. accordingly, the company could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company's most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar, the japanese yen and the brazilian real. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2014 , the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar, japanese yen, and brazilian real foreign currency contracts was $339.1 million . the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $30.8 million as of december 31, 2014 . further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 45risk factors 10 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on its long-term business strategy and the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through pricing and continuous improvement. changes in general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, a weakening in those foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the company's revenue and margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to some extent to attempt to manage a portion of its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the company 10 does not attempt to manage its entire expected exposure, and these instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. a cybersecurity breach may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party service providers and vendors receive, store, and transmit digital personal information in connection with the company's human resources operations, financial services operations, e-commerce, the harley owners group, dealer management, and other aspects of its business. the company's information systems, and those of its third-party service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to the increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to these systems or the information the company and its third-party service providers and vendors maintain and use through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees and third-party service providers and vendors. hardware, software or applications the company develops or obtains from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security and/or the company's operations. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect. the company has implemented and regularly reviews and updates processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. however, the ever-evolving threats mean the company and third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. the company has experienced information security attacks, but to date they have not compromised the company's computing environment or resulted in a material impact on the company's business or operations or the release of confidential information about employees, customers, dealers, suppliers or other third parties. any future significant compromise or breach of the company's data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, employee, dealer, supplier or company data could result in disruption to the company's operations, significant costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits, and/or damage to the company's reputation. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and evolving requirements, compliance could also result in the company being required to incur additional costs. the company's marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of harley-davidson motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to both core customers and outreach customers such as women, young adults and ethnically diverse adults. the company must also execute its multi-generational and multi-cultural strategy without adversely impacting the strength of the brand with core customers. failure to successfully drive demand for the company's products may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies. as the company incorporates new and different features and technology into its products, the company must protect its intellectual property from imitators and ensure its products do not infringe the intellectual property of other companies. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations 11 worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to a global marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. expanding international sales and operations subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales and operations is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government laws and regulations and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to international operations, and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. violations of laws that apply to the company's foreign operations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt the company's business and result in an adverse effect on the company's reputation, business and results of operations. retail sales of the company's independent dealers may be impacted by weather. the company has observed that abnormally cold and/or wet conditions in a region could have the effect of reducing demand or changing the timing for purchases of new harley-davidson motorcycles. reduced demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles ultimately leads to reduced shipments by the company. retail sales of new motorcycles by the company's independent dealers may be adversely impacted by increased supply of and/or declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supply of new motorcycles. the company has observed that when prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles have declined, it can have the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). further, the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that influence the markets for new and used motorcycles. for example, introduction of new motorcycle models with significantly different functionality, technology or other customer satisfiers can result in increased supply of used motorcycles, and a decrease in the inventory of used motorcycles available for sale at harley-davidson dealers in the u.s. may result in an increased supply or decreased demand in the market for used harley-davidson-branded motorcycles, which could result in declining prices for used motorcycles, and prior model-year new motorcycles. also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, those steps may not be effective, or the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company's international sales operations may also be adversely affected by u.s. laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency (epa), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 12 tax - the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. environmental - the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes and related changes in consumer preferences, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. financial services - the company's financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. congress has previously considered and may in the future impose additional regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. depending on the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations, the interpretation of laws and regulations and the specific facts and circumstances involved, violations of or non-compliance with these laws may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages or penalties and administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders, and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business. noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines, criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed in ways that are adverse to hdfs, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that laws and regulations will not attempt to limit the interest rates charged by hdfs, any of which may adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) was passed into law. the dodd-frank act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial services industry is still assessing the impacts. congress detailed some significant changes, but the dodd-frank act leaves many details to be determined by regulation and further study. the full impact will not be fully known for years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted by the appropriate agencies, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by impacted stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the consumer financial protection bureau (cfpb), housed in the federal reserve. the cfpb has been granted significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet known. compliance with the law may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required to comply with the regulations. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. on september 17, 2014 the cfpb proposed a rule that would expand the scope of its supervisory authority to include non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market. this proposed rule became effective on august 31, 2015, giving the cfpb supervisory authority over a non-bank subsidiary of hdfs, allowing the cfpb to conduct comprehensive and rigorous on-site examinations that could result in enforcement actions, fines, regulatorily mandated changes to processes and procedures, product-related changes or consumer refunds, or other actions. 13 u.s. public company - the company is also subject to policies and actions of the sec and new york stock exchange (nyse). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems relating to raw materials and components such as unfavorable pricing, poor quality, or untimely delivery. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency and to mitigate failure risks from older/aged technologies currently in its portfolio. the company has several large, strategic information system projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations and older technologies may fail, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must prevent and detect issues with its products, components purchased from suppliers, and its and its suppliers' manufacturing processes to reduce the risk of recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or litigation, increased product liability claims or litigation, delays in new model launches, and inquiries or investigations by regulatory agencies. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, and ensure that its suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, to ensure high quality products are sold to retail customers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, product recalls, inquiries or investigations from regulatory agencies, warranty claims, and product liability claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflects those in its financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates. further, selling products with poor quality and the announcement of recalls may also adversely affect the company's reputation and brand strength. the company relies on third parties to perform certain operating and administrative functions for the company. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, these suppliers may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. in light of the amount and types of functions that the company has outsourced, these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company's products, the company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in 14 connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to the company's disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its operating ethics and corporate governance practices. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to execute this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must successfully accommodate a seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers. the company's flexible production capability allows it to more closely correlate motorcycle production and wholesale shipments with the retail selling season. any difficulties in executing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company, its suppliers, or its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. the ability of the company to expand international sales may be impacted by existing or new laws and regulations that impose motorcycle licensing restrictions and limit access to roads and highways. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. a number of countries have tiered motorcycle licensing requirements that limit the ability of new and younger riders to obtain licenses to operate the company's motorcycles, and many countries are considering the implementation of such requirements. these requirements only allow new and/or younger riders to operate smaller motorcycles for certain periods of time. riders typically are only permitted to obtain a license to ride larger motorcycles upon reaching certain ages and/or having been licensed to ride smaller motorcycles for a certain period of time, and only after passing additional tests and paying additional fees. these requirements pose obstacles to large displacement motorcycle ownership. other 15 countries have laws and regulations that prohibit motorcycles from being operated on certain roads and highways. these types of laws and regulations could adversely impact the company's plans to expand international sales. the company has a number of competitors, some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. certain competitors appear to be increasing their investment in products that compete with the company's products. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the markets in which the company competes, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can be used to fund discounted prices to u.s. consumers. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. the company's responses to these competitive pressures, or its failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including skilled labor, executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company's cost of borrowing could increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company borrowed $750,000,000 in 2015 to fund the repurchase of its common stock, which increased the company's leverage. having increased leverage increases the risk of a downgrade in the company's credit ratings. the financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer, including the company's independent dealers, to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms and customer credit profiles. credit losses are also influenced by the markets for new and used motorcycles, and the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that impact those markets. for example, the introduction of new models by the company that represent significant upgrades on previous models or a decrease in the inventory of used motorcycles available for sale at harley-davidson dealers in the u.s. may result in increased supply or decreased demand in the market for used harley-davidson-branded motorcycles, including motorcycles securing credit that hdfs has extended. this in turn could adversely impact the prices at which those motorcycles may be sold, which may lead to increased credit losses for hdfs. 16 negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may continue to increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals in the sub-prime lending environment. increases in the frequency of loss and decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles also adversely impact credit losses. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in missouri, wisconsin and pennsylvania will expire in 2018, 2019 and 2022, respectively. collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. regulations related to conflict minerals and other materials that the company purchases to use in its products will cause the company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. the sec adopted inquiry, diligence and disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries, or "conflict minerals", that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. compliance with the disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that the company uses in the manufacturing of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to determine the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in its products that are sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries or determine that its products are "conflict free", then the company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others. additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" minerals, if the company chooses to use only conflict minerals that are "conflict free", the company cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. accordingly, the company could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. other laws or regulations impacting our supply chain, such as the uk modern slavery act, may have similar consequences. 17 the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company's most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar, the japanese yen, the brazilian real and the mexican peso. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2015 , the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar, japanese yen, brazilian real and mexican peso foreign currency contracts was $436.4 million . the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $41.6 million as of december 31, 2015 . further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 46risk factors 10 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on its long-term business strategy and the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through pricing and continuous improvement. changes in general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. weakened economic conditions in certain business sectors and geographic areas, such as oil-dependent areas, can also result in reduced demand for the company's products. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. the company's marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of harley-davidson motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must grow the sport of motorcycling and continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to a diverse set of customers. the company must also execute its multi-generational and multi-cultural strategy without adversely impacting the strength of the brand with core customers. failure to successfully drive demand for the company's products may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the motorcycle industry has become increasingly competitive. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. certain competitors appear to be increasing their investment in products that compete with the company's products. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and as price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the markets in which the company competes, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can be used to fund discounted prices to u.s. consumers. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. the company's responses to these competitive pressures, or its failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 10 increased supply of and/or declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supply of new motorcycles may adversely impact retail sales of new motorcycles by the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that when the supply of used motorcycles increases or the prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles decline, there can be reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). further, the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that influence the markets for new and used motorcycles. for example, introduction of new motorcycle models with significantly different functionality, technology or other customer satisfiers can result in increased supply of used motorcycles, which could result in declining prices for used motorcycles and prior model-year new motorcycles. also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, those steps may not be effective, or the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies. as the company incorporates new and different features and technology into its products, the company must protect its intellectual property from imitators and ensure its products do not infringe the intellectual property of other companies. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements to respond to changing consumer preferences and market demands while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to a global marketplace in an efficient and timely manner and at prices that are attractive to customers. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. a cybersecurity breach may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party service providers and vendors receive, store, and transmit digital personal information in connection with the company's human resources operations, financial services operations, e-commerce, the harley owners group, dealer management, and other aspects of its business. the company's information systems, and those of its third-party service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to the increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. unauthorized parties have attempted to and may attempt in the future to gain access to these systems or the information the company and its third-party service providers and vendors maintain and use through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees and third-party service providers and vendors. hardware, software or applications the company develops or obtains from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security and/or the company's operations. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect. the company has implemented and regularly reviews and updates processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. however, the ever-evolving threats mean the company and third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security 11 breaches or misuses of data. the company has experienced information security attacks, but to date they have not compromised the company's computing environment or resulted in a material impact on the company's business or operations or the release of confidential information about employees, customers, dealers, suppliers or other third parties. any future significant compromise or breach of the company's data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, employee, dealer, supplier or company data could result in disruption to the company's operations, significant costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits, and/or damage to the company's reputation. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and evolving requirements, compliance could also result in the company being required to incur additional costs. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, a weakening in those foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the company's revenue and margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to some extent to attempt to manage a portion of its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the company does not attempt to manage its entire expected exposure, and these instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer, including the company's independent dealers, to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms and customer credit profiles. credit losses are also influenced by the markets for new and used motorcycles, and the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that impact those markets. for example, the introduction of new models by the company that represent significant upgrades on previous models may result in increased supply or decreased demand in the market for used harley-davidson branded motorcycles, including those motorcycles that serve as collateral or security for credit that hdfs has extended. this in turn could adversely impact the prices at which those motorcycles may be sold, which may lead to increased credit losses for hdfs. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may continue to increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals to sub-prime borrowers, as well as actions that the company has taken and could take that impact motorcycle values. increases in the frequency of loss and decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles also adversely impact credit losses. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company must prevent and detect issues with its products, components purchased from suppliers, and its suppliers' manufacturing processes to reduce the risk of recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or litigation, increased product liability claims or litigation, delays in new model launches, and inquiries or investigations by regulatory agencies. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, and ensure that its suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, to ensure high quality products are sold to retail customers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, product recalls, inquiries or investigations from regulatory agencies, warranty claims, and product liability claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflects those in its financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates and result in damages that are not covered by insurance. further, selling products with poor quality, the announcement of recalls, and the filing of product liability claims (whether or not successful), may also adversely affect the company's reputation and brand strength. expanding international sales and operations subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales and operations is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional 12 employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government laws and regulations and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to international operations, and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. violations of laws that apply to the company's foreign operations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt the company's business and result in an adverse effect on the company's reputation, business and results of operations. weather may impact retail sales of the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that abnormally cold and/or wet conditions in a region could have the effect of reducing demand or changing the timing for purchases of new harley-davidson motorcycles. reduced demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles ultimately leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. u.s. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect the company's international sales operations. the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency (epa), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. tax - the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. environmental - the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes and related changes in consumer preferences, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. financial services - the company's financial services operations are governed by a wide range of foreign, federal and state laws that regulate financial and lending institutions, and financial services activities. in the u.s. for example, these laws include the federal truth-in-lending act, consumer leasing act, equal credit opportunity act and fair credit reporting act. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. federal and state bodies may in the future impose additional laws, regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. violations of or non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages, civil fines, or criminal penalties and 13 administrative sanctions and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision also could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business, such as through the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed in ways that are adverse to hdfs, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that laws and regulations will not attempt to limit the interest rates charged by hdfs, any of which may adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) is a sweeping piece of legislation impacting financial services and the full effect will not be fully known for years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the consumer financial protection bureau (cfpb). the cfpb has significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet fully known. compliance may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply, as well as changes to laws and regulations, or the imposition of additional laws and regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. the cfpb also has supervisory authority over certain non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market, which includes a non-bank subsidiary of hdfs, allowing the cfpb to conduct comprehensive and rigorous on-site examinations that could result in enforcement actions, fines, changes to processes and procedures, product-related changes or consumer refunds, or other actions. u.s. public company - the company is also subject to policies and actions of the sec and new york stock exchange (nyse). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems relating to raw materials and components such as unfavorable pricing, poor quality, or untimely delivery. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. changes in laws and policies relating to trade and taxation may also adversely impact the company's foreign suppliers. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency and to mitigate failure risks from older/aged technologies currently in its portfolio. the company has several large, strategic information system projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations and older technologies may fail, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company relies on third parties to perform certain operating and administrative functions for the company. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, these suppliers may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. in light of the amount and types of functions that the company has outsourced, these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 14 the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to the company's disclosures concerning legal proceedings in this form 10-k and in the other periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its operating ethics and corporate governance practices. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance and operating ethics.the company has a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance and strong operating ethics may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including skilled labor, executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization, and to effectively execute reorganization actions within expected costs and realize the expected benefits of those actions. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance, and the company must effectively execute reorganization actions. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to execute this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must successfully accommodate a seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers. the company's flexible production capability allows it to more closely correlate motorcycle production and wholesale shipments with the retail selling season. any difficulties in executing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company, its suppliers, or its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these 15 benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. the ability of the company to expand international sales may be impacted by existing or new laws and regulations that impose motorcycle licensing restrictions and limit access to roads and highways. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. a number of countries have tiered motorcycle licensing requirements that limit the ability of new and younger riders to obtain licenses to operate the company's motorcycles, and many countries are considering the implementation of such requirements. these requirements only allow new and/or younger riders to operate smaller motorcycles for certain periods of time. riders typically are only permitted to obtain a license to ride larger motorcycles upon reaching certain ages and/or having been licensed to ride smaller motorcycles for a certain period of time, and only after passing additional tests and paying additional fees. these requirements pose obstacles to large displacement motorcycle ownership. other countries have laws and regulations that prohibit motorcycles from being operated on certain roads and highways. these types of laws and regulations could adversely impact the company's plans to expand international sales. the financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company's cost of borrowing could increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company borrowed $750,000,000 in 2015 to fund the repurchase of its common stock, which increased the company's leverage. having increased leverage increases the risk of a downgrade in the company's credit ratings. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in missouri, wisconsin and pennsylvania will expire in 2018, 2019 and 2022, respectively. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's plants emit 16 amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. regulations related to conflict minerals and other materials that the company purchases to use in its products will cause the company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. the sec adopted inquiry, diligence and disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries, or "conflict minerals," that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. compliance with the disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that the company uses in the manufacturing of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to determine the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in its products that are sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries or determine that its products are "conflict free," then the company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others. additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" minerals, if the company chooses to use only conflict minerals that are "conflict free," the company cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. accordingly, the company could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. other laws or regulations impacting our supply chain, such as the uk modern slavery act, may have similar consequences. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company's most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar, the japanese yen, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2016 , the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar, japanese yen, brazilian real, canadian dollar and mexican peso foreign currency contracts was $554.6 million . the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $52.2 million as of december 31, 2016 . further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 46risk factors 9 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. 9 the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth and increase ridership to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on its long-term business strategy and the harley-davidson brand, or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through pricing and continuous improvement. the company's strategy to grow ridership may not be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of harley-davidson motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must grow the sport of motorcycling and continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to new customers, including new riders, competitive riders and those who have motorcycle licenses but do not currently ride. the company's efforts toward building two million riders in the u.s. between 2017 and 2027 and growing ridership internationally may not be successful, and achieving such growth in ridership may still not adequately meet the desired result of driving unit sales growth. further, growing ridership in the u.s. may be challenging because the motorcycle market in the u.s. has been stagnant or declining, and the company expects those conditions to continue. failure to successfully drive demand for the company's products may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must effectively execute its manufacturing optimization plan within expected costs and timing. in january 2018, the company announced a multi-year manufacturing optimization plan anchored by the consolidation of its final assembly plant in kansas city, missouri, into its york, pennsylvania plant, and the closure of its wheel operations in australia. these actions are designed to eliminate excess capacity and reduce production costs and component supply costs. effectively executing these plans within expected costs and realizing expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the time required to complete planned actions and effective collaboration with the unions representing the company's employees, the absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions, availability of and effective use of third-party service providers to assist in implementing the actions, the ability and effectiveness of current suppliers to take on additional component production volume, avoidance of unexpected disruptions in production, retention of key employees involved in implementing the restructuring plans and the ability of the company to dispose of vacated facilities in a cost effective manner. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies. the company may not be able to achieve its goal of introducing 100 new, high-impact motorcycle models between 2017 and 2027, and introducing those models may still not lead to the desired result of driving unit sales growth. as the company incorporates new and different features and technology into its products, the company must protect its intellectual property from imitators and ensure its products do not infringe the intellectual property of other companies. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements to respond to changing consumer preferences and market demands while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products, and development of electric vehicles will present challenges to the company's ability to maintain such look, sound and feel. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to a global marketplace in an efficient and timely manner and at prices that are attractive to customers. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. increased supply of and/or declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supply of new motorcycles may adversely impact retail sales of new motorcycles by the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that when the supply of used motorcycles increases or the prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles decline, there can be reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). further, the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that influence the markets for new and used harley-davidson motorcycles. for example, introduction of new motorcycle models with significantly different functionality, technology or other customer satisfiers can result in increased supply of used motorcycles, which could result in declining prices for used motorcycles and prior model-year new motorcycles. also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, those steps may not be effective, or the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. 10 the motorcycle industry has become increasingly competitive. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. certain competitors appear to be increasing their investment in products that compete with the company's products. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and as price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the markets in which the company competes, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can enable them to reduce prices to u.s. consumers. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. the company's responses to these competitive pressures, or its failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. changes in general economic and business conditions, tightening of credit and retail markets, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. weakened economic conditions in certain business sectors and geographic areas, such as oil-dependent areas, can also result in reduced demand for the company's products. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. expanding international sales and operations subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales and operations is a part of the company's long-term business strategy, particularly in light of the u.s. market conditions. there is no assurance that the company will accomplish this successfully. further, to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government laws and regulations and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to international operations, and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. business practices that may be accepted in other countries can violate u.s. or other laws that apply to the company. violations of laws that apply to the company's foreign operations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt the company's business and result in an adverse effect on the company's reputation, business and results of operations. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. based on the company's strategy, the company may, from time to time, open, close, expand, contract or restructure one or more of its manufacturing facilities. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to execute this strategy, the company must be successful in its implementation of facility changes and in its continuous improvement efforts, all of which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. to execute this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company must prevent and detect issues with its products, components purchased from suppliers, and its suppliers' manufacturing processes to reduce the risk of recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or 11 litigation, increased product liability claims or litigation, delays in new model launches, and inquiries or investigations by regulatory agencies. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, and ensure that its suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, to ensure high quality products are sold to retail customers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, field actions such as product programs and product recalls, inquiries or investigations from regulatory agencies, warranty claims, and product liability claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflects those in its financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates and result in damages that are not covered by insurance. further, selling products with poor quality, the announcement of recalls, and the filing of product liability claims (whether or not successful), may also adversely affect the company's reputation and brand strength. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in missouri, wisconsin and pennsylvania will expire in 2018, 2019 and 2022, respectively. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive or that allow the company to execute its manufacturing optimization as planned. the company's decisions regarding opening, closing, expanding, contracting or restructuring its facilities may require changes to existing or new bargaining agreements. the company will need to negotiate an extension of its bargaining agreements covering its kansas city, missouri facility as part of its manufacturing optimization plan. failure to extend the kc bargaining agreements, or renew other agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, a weakening in those foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the company's revenue and margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can enable them to reduce prices to u.s. consumers. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to some extent to attempt to manage a portion of its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the company does not attempt to manage its entire expected exposure, and these instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer, including the company's independent dealers, to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms and customer credit profiles. credit losses are also influenced by the markets for new and used motorcycles, and the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that impact those markets. for example, the introduction of new models by the company that represent significant upgrades on previous models may result in increased supply or decreased demand in the market for used harley-davidson branded motorcycles, including those motorcycles that serve as collateral or security for credit that hdfs has extended. this in turn could adversely impact the prices at which those motorcycles may be sold, which may lead to increased credit losses for hdfs. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may continue to increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals to sub-prime borrowers, as well as actions that the company has taken and could take that impact motorcycle values. increases in the frequency of loss and decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles also adversely impact credit losses. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson branded motorcycles, those 12 circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including skilled labor, executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization, and to effectively execute reorganization actions within expected costs and realize the expected benefits of those actions. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance, and the company must effectively execute reorganization actions. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. a cybersecurity breach may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party service providers and vendors receive, store, and transmit digital personal information in connection with the company's human resources operations, financial services operations, e-commerce, the harley owners group, dealer management, and other aspects of its business. the company's information systems, and those of its third-party service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to the increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. unauthorized parties have attempted to and may attempt in the future to gain access to these systems or the information the company and its third-party service providers and vendors maintain and use through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees and third-party service providers and vendors. hardware, software or applications the company develops or obtains from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security and/or the company's operations. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect. the company has implemented and regularly reviews and updates processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. however, the ever-evolving threats mean the company and third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. the company has experienced information security attacks, but to date they have not compromised the company's computing environment or resulted in a material impact on the company's business or operations or the release of confidential information about employees, customers, dealers, suppliers or other third parties. any future significant compromise or breach of the company's data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, employee, dealer, supplier or company data could result in disruption to the company's operations, significant costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits, and/or damage to the company's reputation. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and evolving requirements, compliance could also result in the company being required to incur additional costs. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products 13 in certain countries. u.s. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect the company's international sales operations. the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency (epa), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. tax - the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities including the impact of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (2017 tax act). the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. to the extent there are considerable changes to tax laws, the company may need to readjust its tax strategy, and may not be able to take full advantage of such changes. furthermore, given the complexity and timing of the 2017 tax act, future guidance, interpretations and pronouncements may add clarity to the numerous aspects of the 2017 tax act that impact the company. future clarifications may give rise to additional unanticipated matters that could impact the company's tax liabilities and effective tax rate that result in revisions to the company's provisional estimates related to the 2017 tax act included in the company's 2017 income tax provision, which could in turn adversely impact future operating results. environmental - the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes and related changes in consumer preferences, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. financial services - the company's financial services operations are governed by a wide range of foreign, federal and state laws that regulate financial and lending institutions, and financial services activities. in the u.s. for example, these laws include the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act and fair credit reporting act. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. federal and state bodies may in the future impose additional laws, regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. violations of, or non-compliance with, relevant laws and regulations may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages, civil fines, or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision also could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business, such as through the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed in ways that are adverse to hdfs, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that laws and regulations will not attempt to limit the interest rates charged by hdfs, any of which may adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) is a sweeping piece of legislation impacting financial services and the full effect will not be fully known for years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the consumer financial protection bureau (cfpb). the cfpb has significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws 14 and regulations are all elements that are not yet fully known. compliance may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply, as well as changes to laws and regulations, or the imposition of additional laws and regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. the cfpb also has supervisory authority over certain non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market, which includes a non-bank subsidiary of hdfs, allowing the cfpb to conduct comprehensive and rigorous on-site examinations that could result in enforcement actions, fines, changes to processes and procedures, product-related changes or consumer refunds, or other actions. u.s. public company - the company is also subject to policies and actions of the sec and new york stock exchange (nyse). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. weather may impact retail sales by the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that abnormally cold and/or wet conditions in a region, including impacts from hurricanes or unusual storms, could have the effect of reducing demand or changing the timing for purchases of new harley-davidson motorcycles. reduced demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles ultimately leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems relating to raw materials and components such as unfavorable pricing, poor quality, or untimely delivery. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. changes in laws and policies relating to trade and taxation may also adversely impact the company's foreign suppliers. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency and to mitigate failure risks from older/aged technologies currently in its portfolio. the company has several large, strategic information system projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations and older technologies may fail, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the ability of the company to expand international sales may be impacted by existing or new laws and regulations that impose motorcycle licensing restrictions and limit access to roads and highways. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. a number of countries have tiered motorcycle licensing requirements that limit the ability of new and younger riders to obtain licenses to operate the company's motorcycles, and many countries are considering the implementation of such requirements. these requirements only allow new and/or younger riders to operate smaller motorcycles for certain periods of time. riders typically are only permitted to obtain a license to ride larger motorcycles upon reaching certain ages and/or having been licensed to ride smaller motorcycles for a certain period of time, and only after passing additional tests and paying additional fees. these requirements pose obstacles to large displacement motorcycle ownership. other countries have laws and regulations that prohibit motorcycles from being operated on certain roads and highways. these types of laws and regulations could adversely impact the company's plans to expand international sales. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. 15 in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to the company's disclosures concerning legal proceedings in this form 10-k and in the other periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must successfully accommodate a seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers. the company's flexible production capability allows it to more closely correlate motorcycle production and wholesale shipments with the retail selling season. any difficulties in executing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company, its suppliers, or its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company's cost of borrowing could increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company borrowed $750,000,000 in 2015 to fund the repurchase of its common stock, which increased the company's leverage. having increased leverage increases the risk of a downgrade in the company's credit ratings. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its operating ethics and corporate governance practices. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance and operating ethics.the company has a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance and strong operating ethics may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 16 the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. regulations related to conflict minerals and other materials that the company purchases to use in its products will cause the company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. the sec adopted inquiry, diligence and disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries, or "conflict minerals," that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. compliance with the disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that the company uses in the manufacturing of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to determine the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in its products that are sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries or determine that its products are "conflict free," then the company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others. additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" minerals, if the company chooses to use only conflict minerals that are "conflict free," the company cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. further, other laws or regulations impacting our supply chain, such as the uk modern slavery act, may have similar consequences. for example, many countries in which the company distributes its products are beginning to introduce regulations that require knowledge and disclosure of virtually all materials and chemicals in the company's products. accordingly, the company could incur significant costs related to the process of complying with these laws, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. the company relies on third parties to perform certain operating and administrative functions for the company. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, these suppliers may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. in light of the amount and types of functions that the company has outsourced, these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company's most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar, the japanese yen, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the british pound and the mexican peso. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar, japanese yen, brazilian real, canadian dollar and mexican peso foreign currency contracts was $675.7 million and $554.6 million, respectively. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $67.2 million and $52.2 million as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, respectively. further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the company's earnings are affected by changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motorcycles. the company uses derivative instruments on a limited basis to hedge the prices of certain commodities. at december 31, 2017, the notional value of these instruments was $5.4 million and their fair value was a net asset of $0.3 million. as of december 31, 2016, the notional value of these instruments was $6.0 million and their fair value was a net asset of $0.5 million. the potential decrease in fair value of these contracts from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would not be significant. hdfs' earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs' interest-rate sensitive financial instruments include finance receivables and debt. with the exception of short-term commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper 45 conduit facilities, the majority of hdfs' debt instruments at december 31, 2017 have fixed interest rates. a one-percentage point increase in the interest rate on commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities would increase financial services interest expense in 2018 by approximately $15 million. this analysis does not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. further, in the event of a change in interest rates, hdfs may take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis does not account for these impacts. 46risk factors 10 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth and increase ridership to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on its long-term business strategy and the harley-davidson brand, or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through pricing and continuous improvement. the company's strategy to grow ridership may not be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of harley-davidson motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must grow the sport of motorcycling and continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to new customers, including new riders, competitive riders and those who have motorcycle licenses but do not currently ride. the company's efforts toward building two million riders in the u.s. between 2017 and 2027 and growing ridership internationally may not be successful, and achieving such growth in ridership may still not adequately meet the desired result of driving unit sales growth. further, growing ridership in the u.s. may be challenging because the motorcycle market in the u.s. has been stagnant or declining, and the company expects those conditions to continue. failure to successfully drive demand for the company's products may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. changes in trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs, their enforcement, and downstream consequences, may continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and outlook. tariffs and/or other developments with respect to trade policies, trade agreements, and government regulations could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. to date, the european union has placed a 25% incremental tariff (31% total tariff) on motorcycles imported into the european union from the u.s., and that is scheduled to increase to a 50% incremental tariff (56% total tariff) effective june 1, 2021. shipments of motorcycles to the european union are a significant and growing portion of the company's total motorcycle sales. the china tariffs on harley-davidson motorcycles exported from the u.s. increased from 30% to 55%, effective august 23, 2018, and are set to remain in place indefinitely. in addition, the u.s government has imposed tariffs of 25% on steel imports and 10% on aluminum imports from certain countries, which has resulted in increased costs to the company for these materials. without limitation, (i) tariffs currently in place, (ii) the imposition by the u.s. government of new tariffs on imports to the u.s. and/or (iii) the imposition by foreign countries of tariffs on u.s. products, including tariffs imposed in response to u.s. tariffs, could materially increase: (a) the cost of our products that we are offering for sale in relevant countries, (b) the cost of certain products that we source from foreign manufacturers, and (c) certain raw materials that we utilize, the prices of which tariffs may impact. we may not be able to pass such increased costs on to our dealers or their customers, and we may not be able to secure sources of certain products and materials that are not subject to 10 tariffs on a timely basis. such developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the company previously disclosed plans to mitigate the impact of the current incremental european union and china tariffs by the end of 2019. the company is pursuing regulatory approvals for motorcycles sourced in thailand to receive lower tariff treatment, but it is uncertain whether the company will succeed in obtaining these regulatory approvals. as a result, the company is considering multiple other options to serve the eu market should they be required. options other than assembling motorcycles in thailand would likely not result in mitigating the full impact of the current incremental european union tariffs by the end of 2019. the company must effectively execute its manufacturing optimization plan within expected costs and timing. in january 2018, the company announced a multi-year manufacturing optimization plan anchored by the consolidation of its final assembly plant in kansas city, missouri, into its york, pennsylvania plant, and the closure of its wheel operations in australia. these actions are designed to eliminate excess capacity and reduce production costs and component supply costs. effectively executing these plans within expected costs and realizing expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the time required to complete planned actions and effective collaboration with the unions representing the company's employees, the absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions, availability of and effective use of third-party service providers to assist in implementing the actions, the ability and effectiveness of current suppliers to take on additional component production volume, avoidance of unexpected disruptions in production, retention of key employees involved in implementing the restructuring plans and the ability of the company to dispose of vacated facilities in a cost effective manner. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technology, and at the same time, it is subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies. the company may not be able to achieve its goal of introducing 100 new, high-impact motorcycle models between 2017 and 2027, and introducing those models may still not lead to the desired result of driving unit sales growth. as the company incorporates new and different features and technology into its products, the company must protect its intellectual property from imitators and ensure its products do not infringe the intellectual property of other companies. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements to respond to changing consumer preferences and market demands while maintaining the unique look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products, and development of electric vehicles will present challenges to the company's ability to maintain such look, sound and feel. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to a global marketplace in an efficient and timely manner and at prices that are attractive to customers. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. increased supply of and/or declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supply of new motorcycles may adversely impact retail sales of new motorcycles by the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that when the supply of used motorcycles increases or the prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles decline, there can be reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). further, the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that influence the markets for new and used harley-davidson motorcycles. for example, introduction of new motorcycle models with significantly different functionality, technology or other customer satisfiers can result in increased supply of used motorcycles, which could result in declining prices for used motorcycles and prior model-year new motorcycles. also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, those steps may not be effective, or the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the motorcycle industry has become increasingly competitive. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. certain competitors appear to be increasing their investment in products that compete with the company's products. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and as price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in 11 the markets in which the company competes, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can enable them to reduce prices to u.s. consumers. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. the company's responses to these competitive pressures, or its failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. changes in general economic and business conditions, tightening of credit and retail markets, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. weakened economic conditions in certain business sectors and geographic areas can also result in reduced demand for the company's products. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. expanding international sales and operations subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales and operations is a part of the company's long-term business strategy, particularly in light of the u.s. market conditions. there is no assurance that the company will accomplish this successfully. further, to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government laws and regulations and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to international operations, and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. this includes, for example, the uncertainty related to the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union (commonly known as brexit ). business practices that may be accepted in other countries can violate u.s. or other laws that apply to the company. violations of laws that apply to the company's foreign operations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt the company's business and result in an adverse effect on the company's reputation, business and results of operations. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. based on the company's strategy, the company may, from time to time, open, close, expand, contract or restructure one or more of its manufacturing facilities. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to execute this strategy, the company must be successful in its implementation of facility changes and in its continuous improvement efforts, all of which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company must prevent and detect issues with its products, components purchased from suppliers, and its suppliers' manufacturing processes to reduce the risk of recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or litigation, increased product liability claims or litigation, delays in new model launches, and inquiries or investigations by regulatory agencies. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, and ensure that its suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, to ensure high quality products are sold to retail customers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, field actions such as product programs and product recalls, inquiries or investigations from regulatory agencies, warranty claims, and product liability claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of 12 warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflects those in its financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates and result in damages that are not covered by insurance. further, selling products with poor quality, the announcement of recalls, and the filing of product liability claims (whether or not successful), may also adversely affect the company's reputation and brand strength. a cybersecurity breach may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party service providers and vendors receive, store, and transmit digital personal information in connection with the company's human resources operations, financial services operations, e-commerce, the harley owners group, dealer management, mobile applications, planned connected vehicle services offerings and other aspects of its business. the company's information systems, and those of its third-party service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to the continually evolving cybersecurity risks. the company's plan to offer connected vehicle services will heighten these risks. unauthorized parties have attempted to and may attempt in the future to gain access to these systems or the information the company and its third-party service providers and vendors maintain and use through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees and third-party service providers and vendors. hardware, software or applications the company develops or obtains from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security and/or the company's operations. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect. the company has implemented and regularly reviews and updates processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. however, the ever-evolving threats mean the company and third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. the company has experienced information security attacks, but to date they have not materially compromised the company's computing environment or resulted in a material impact on the company's business or operations or the release of confidential information about employees, customers, dealers, suppliers or other third parties. any future significant compromise or breach of the company's data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, employee, dealer, supplier or company data could result in disruption to the company's operations, significant costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits, and/or damage to the company's reputation. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and evolving requirements, compliance could also result in the company being required to incur additional costs. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, a weakening in those foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the company's revenue and margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can enable them to reduce prices to u.s. consumers. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to some extent to attempt to manage a portion of its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, the company does not attempt to manage its entire expected exposure, and these instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer, including the company's independent dealers, to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms and customer credit profiles. credit losses are also influenced by the markets for new and used motorcycles, and the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that impact those markets. for example, the introduction of new models by the company that represent significant upgrades on previous models may result in increased supply or decreased demand in the market for used harley-davidson branded motorcycles, including those motorcycles that serve as collateral or security for credit that hdfs has extended. this in turn could adversely impact the prices at which those motorcycles may be sold, which may lead to increased credit losses for hdfs. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may continue to increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals to sub-prime borrowers, as well as actions that the company has taken and could take that impact motorcycle values. increases in the frequency of loss and decreases in 13 the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles also adversely impact credit losses. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including skilled labor, executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization, and to effectively execute reorganization actions within expected costs and realize the expected benefits of those actions. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance, and the company must effectively execute reorganization actions. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency and to mitigate failure risks from older/aged technologies currently in its portfolio. the company has several large, strategic information system projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations and older technologies may fail, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. in the case of the company's planned electronic vehicle services offering, these risks are heightened because these services are dependent on (1) the successful implementation of complex third-party cloud solutions, (2) the ability of a rider's motorcycle and mobile application to successfully connect to each other, and (3) the support of cellular carriers. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. u.s. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect the company's international sales operations. the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency (epa), sec, national highway 14 traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. tax - the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities including the impact of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (2017 tax act). the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. to the extent there are considerable changes to tax laws, the company may need to readjust its tax strategy, and may not be able to take full advantage of such changes. environmental - the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as the california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes and related changes in consumer preferences, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. financial services - the company's financial services operations are governed by a wide range of foreign, federal and state laws that regulate financial and lending institutions, and financial services activities. in the u.s. for example, these laws include the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act and fair credit reporting act. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. federal and state bodies may in the future impose additional laws, regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. violations of, or non-compliance with, relevant laws and regulations may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages, civil fines, or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision also could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business, such as through the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed in ways that are adverse to hdfs, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that laws and regulations will not attempt to limit the interest rates charged by hdfs, any of which may adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) is a sweeping piece of legislation impacting financial services and the full effect will not be fully known for years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the consumer financial protection bureau (the bureau). the bureau has significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the bureau will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet fully known. compliance may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply, as well as changes to laws and regulations, or the imposition of additional laws and regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. the bureau also has supervisory authority over certain non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market, which includes a non-bank subsidiary of hdfs, allowing the bureau to conduct comprehensive and rigorous on-site examinations that could result in enforcement actions, fines, changes to processes and procedures, product-related changes or consumer refunds, or other actions. 15 u.s. public company - the company is also subject to policies and actions of the sec and new york stock exchange (nyse). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. weather may impact retail sales by the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that abnormally cold and/or wet conditions in a region, including impacts from hurricanes or unusual storms, could have the effect of reducing demand or changing the timing for purchases of new harley-davidson motorcycles. reduced demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles ultimately leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company relies on third-party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems relating to raw materials and components such as unfavorable pricing, poor quality, or untimely delivery. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. changes in laws and policies relating to trade and taxation may also adversely impact the company's foreign suppliers. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in missouri and wisconsin will expire in 2019, and agreements with employees in pennsylvania will expire in 2022. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. the company's decisions regarding opening, closing, expanding, contracting or restructuring its facilities may require changes to existing or new bargaining agreements. failure to renew agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the ability of the company to expand international sales may be impacted by existing or new laws and regulations that impose motorcycle licensing restrictions and limit access to roads and highways. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. a number of countries have tiered motorcycle licensing requirements that limit the ability of new and younger riders to obtain licenses to operate the company's motorcycles, and many countries are considering the implementation of such requirements. these requirements only allow new and/or younger riders to operate smaller motorcycles for certain periods of time. riders typically are only permitted to obtain a license to ride larger motorcycles upon reaching certain ages and/or having been licensed to ride smaller motorcycles for a certain period of time, and only after passing additional tests and paying additional fees. these requirements pose obstacles to large displacement motorcycle ownership. other countries have laws and regulations that prohibit motorcycles from being operated on certain roads and highways. these types of laws and regulations could adversely impact the company's plans to expand international sales. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to the company's disclosures concerning legal proceedings in this form 10-k and in the other periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. 16 the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must successfully accommodate a seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers. the company's flexible production capability allows it to more closely correlate motorcycle production and wholesale shipments with the retail selling season. any difficulties in executing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company, its suppliers, and its independent dealers must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company, its suppliers, or its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company's cost of borrowing could increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company borrowed $750,000,000 in 2015 to fund the repurchase of its common stock, which increased the company's leverage. having increased leverage increases the risk of a downgrade in the company's credit ratings. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its operating ethics and corporate governance practices. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance and operating ethics. the company has a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance and strong operating ethics may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially 17 restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. regulations related to materials that the company purchases to use in its products could cause the company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. laws or regulations impacting our supply chain, such as the uk modern slavery act, could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the raw materials that the company uses in the manufacturing of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to fully understand its supply chain, then the company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others. for example, many countries in which the company distributes its products are beginning to introduce regulations that require knowledge and disclosure of virtually all materials and chemicals in the company's products. accordingly, the company could incur significant costs related to the process of complying with these laws, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. the company relies on third parties to perform certain operating and administrative functions for the company. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, these suppliers may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. in light of the amount and types of functions that the company has outsourced, these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company's most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar, the japanese yen, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the british pound and the mexican peso. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar, japanese yen, brazilian real, canadian dollar and mexican peso foreign currency contracts was $443.0 million and $675.7 million, respectively. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies 45 underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $39.9 million and $67.2 million as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the company's earnings are affected by changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motorcycles. the company uses derivative instruments on a limited basis to hedge the prices of certain commodities. at december 31, 2018, the notional value of these instruments was $6.1 million and their fair value was a net liability of $0.5 million. as of december 31, 2017, the notional value of these instruments was $5.4 million and their fair value was a net asset of $0.3 million. the potential decrease in fair value of these contracts from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would not be significant. hdfs' earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs' interest-rate sensitive financial instruments include finance receivables, debt and interest rate derivatives. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt. as of december 31, 2018, hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $900.0 million. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a $8.3 million decrease in the fair value of the agreements. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding as of december 31, 2017. hdfs has short-term commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities that is subject to changes in interest rates. hdfs estimates that a one-percentage point increase in the interest rate on commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities would increase financial services interest expense in 2019 by approximately $13.2 million. this analysis does not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. further, in the event of a change in interest rates, hdfs may take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis does not account for these impacts. 46risk factors 10 risk factors of this report and under the cautionary statements section in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this report. shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking statements and cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements included in the overview and outlook sections of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are only made as of january 28, 2020 and the remaining forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date indicated or, if a date is not indicated, as of the date of the filing of this report ( february 19, 2020 ), and the company disclaims any obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. item 1. business general harley-davidson motor company was founded in 1903. harley-davidson, inc. was incorporated in 1981, at which time it purchased the harley-davidson motorcycle business from amf incorporated in a management buyout. in 1986, harley-davidson, inc. became publicly held. harley-davidson, inc. is the parent company of harley-davidson motor company (hdmc) and harley-davidson financial services (hdfs). unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the company include harley-davidson, inc. and all of its subsidiaries. the company operates in two segments: motorcycles and related products (motorcycles) and financial services. the company's reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services and are managed separately based on the fundamental differences in their operations. strategy the company's long-term strategy to build the next generation of harley-davidson riders globally includes the following 2027 objectives: expand total harley-davidson riders to 4 million in the u.s. grow international business to 50% of annual hdmc revenue launch 100 new, high-impact harley-davidson motorcycles beginning in 2017 deliver superior return on invested capital for hdmc that falls within the top quartile of the s&amp;p 500 grow the business without growing its environmental impact the more roads to harley-davidson (more roads) plan is designed to accelerate the company's progress toward building riders globally from 2018 to 2022. the more roads plan includes four growth catalysts: new products keeping riders inspired by extending the company's leadership in the market segments it has shaped and defined while unlocking new market opportunities broader access creating new pathways to harley-davidson, expanding access and appeal to more people around the world stronger dealers working side-by-side with the company's global dealers to build stronger capabilities that lead to improved channel performance, greater profitability and a harley-davidson experience that exceeds riders' expectations amplify brand enhancing the harley-davidson experience to inspire interest in riding, foster moto-culture and build an even bigger, more passionate community of harley-davidson riders 3 motorcycles and related products segment the motorcycles segment consists of hdmc which designs, manufactures and sells harley-davidson motorcycles as well as motorcycle parts, accessories, general merchandise and services. the company's products are sold to retail customers primarily through a network of independent dealers. the company conducts business on a global basis, with sales in the united states (u.s.), canada, europe/middle east/africa (emea), asia pacific, and latin america. motorcycles segment revenue by product line as a percent of total revenue for the last three fiscal years was as follows : 2019 2018 2017 motorcycles 77.4 % 78.1 % 76.6 % parts &amp; accessories 15.6 % 15.2 % 16.3 % general merchandise 5.2 % 4.9 % 5.3 % licensing 0.8 % 0.8 % 0.8 % other products and services 1.0 % 1.0 % 1.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % motorcycles the company's current harley-davidson motorcycle offering includes cruiser and touring models that feature unique styling, innovative design, distinctive sound, and superior quality with the ability to customize. harley-davidson motorcycles generally feature engines with displacements that are greater than 600cc, up to a maximum displacement of approximately 1900cc. in addition, the company introduced livewire , its first electric motorcycle, in 2019. the on-road motorcycle industry is comprised of the following segments: cruiser emphasizes styling, customization and casual riding touring emphasizes rider comfort and load capacity and incorporates features such as fairings and luggage compartments ideal for long rides standard a basic motorcycle typically featuring upright seating for one or two passengers sportbike incorporates racing technology and performance and aerodynamic styling and riding position dual designed with the capability for use on-road as well as for some off-road recreational use the company's current lineup of motorcycles competes primarily in the cruiser and touring segments. competition in the segments of the motorcycle industry where the company currently competes is based upon a number of factors including product capabilities and features, styling, price, quality, reliability, warranty, availability of financing, and quality of the dealer networks that sell the products. the company believes its motorcycles continue to generally command a premium price at retail relative to competitors' motorcycles. harley-davidson motorcycles feature remarkable styling, customization, innovation, sound, quality and reliability and include a warranty that is generally two years. the company considers the availability of a line of motorcycle parts &amp; accessories and general merchandise, the availability of financing through hdfs and its global network of independent dealers to be competitive advantages. under the more roads plan, the company intends to introduce new products, including additional electric motorcycles; new middleweight motorcycles that include adventure touring, custom and streetfighter models with engine displacements ranging from 750cc to 1250cc; and smaller displacement motorcycles for certain emerging markets. in 2019 , the company announced a collaboration with zhejiang qianjiang motorcycle co., ltd. that will support the launch of a smaller, more accessible harley-davidson motorcycle planned for the china market in 2020 with additional asian markets expected to follow. the company plans to introduce these new motorcycles between 2020 and 2022. motorcycle industry data in 2019 , the u.s. and european markets accounted for approximately 75% of the total annual independent dealer retail sales of new harley-davidson motorcycles. the most significant other markets for the company, based on the company's 2019 retail sales data, were japan, australia, and canada. the company's market includes on-road motorcycles with internal combustion engines with displacements greater than 600cc and electric motorcycles with kilowatt (kw) peak power equivalents greater than 600cc (601+cc). in the u.s., sales in the 601+cc portion of the motorcycle market represented approximately 76% of the total motorcycle market in 2019, based on new units registered. the cruiser and touring segments accounted for approximately 70% of the sales in u.s. 601+cc portion of the motorcycle market in 2019 , consistent with 2018. harley-davidson has been the historical market share leader in the u.s. 601+cc portion of the motorcycle market (u.s. industry data source: motorcycle industry council). 4 u.s. motorcycle registration data (a)(b) u.s. retail registration data for 601+cc motorcycles was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 industry new motorcycle registrations 252,842 263,750 288,802 harley-davidson new motorcycle registrations 124,040 131,064 146,493 harley-davidson u.s. market share 49.1 % 49.7 % 50.7 % (a) data includes on-road 601+cc models and electric motorcycles with kw peak power equivalents greater than 600cc's. on-road 601+cc models include dual models, three-wheeled motorcycles and autocycles. registration data for harley-davidson street 500 motorcycles is not included in this table. (b) u.s. industry data is derived from information provided by the motorcycle industry council. this third-party data is subject to revision and update. the retail registration data for harley-davidson motorcycles presented in this table will differ from the harley-davidson retail sales data presented in item 7. management's discussion and analysis . the company's source for retail sales data in item 7. management's discussion and analysis is sales and warranty registrations provided by independent harley-davidson dealers as compiled by the company. the retail sales data in item 7. management's discussion and analysis includes sales of harley-davidson street 500 motorcycles which are excluded from this table. in addition, small differences may arise related to the timing of data submissions to the independent sources. the european 601+cc motorcycle market is larger than the u.s. market and customer preferences differ from those of u.s. customers. the cruiser and touring segments represented approximately 20% of the sales in the 601+cc portion of the european market in 2019 compared to approximately 70% of the 601+cc portion of the motorcycle market in the u.s. european motorcycle registration data (a)(b) european retail registration data for 601+cc motorcycles was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 industry new motorcycle registrations 425,998 397,669 390,619 harley-davidson new motorcycle registrations 37,813 40,930 38,115 harley-davidson european market share 8.9 % 10.3 % 9.8 % (a) data includes on-road 601+cc models. on-road 601+cc models include dual purpose models, three-wheeled motorcycles and autocycles. registration data for harley-davidson street 500 motorcycles is not included in this table. (b) europe industry data includes retail sales in austria, belgium, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, italy, luxembourg, netherlands, norway, portugal, spain, sweden, switzerland, and the united kingdom. industry retail motorcycle registration data is derived from information provided by the association des constructeurs europeens de motocycles, an independent agency. this third-party data is subject to revision and update. the retail registration data for harley-davidson motorcycles presented in this table will differ from the harley-davidson retail sales data presented in item 7. management's discussion and analysis . the company's source for retail sales data in item 7. management's discussion and analysis is sales and warranty registrations provided by harley-davidson dealers as compiled by the company. the retail sales data in item 7. management's discussion and analysis includes sales of harley-davidson street 500 motorcycles which are excluded from this table. in addition, some differences may arise related to the timing of data submissions to the independent sources. parts &amp; accessories and general merchandise the company offers a line of harley-davidson parts &amp; accessories (p&amp;a) and general merchandise. p&amp;a products are comprised of genuine motor parts and genuine motor accessories. genuine motor parts include replacement parts and genuine motor accessories includes mechanical and cosmetic accessories. general merchandise includes riding gear and apparel, including genuine motorclothes . licensing the company creates reach and awareness of the harley-davidson brand among its customers and the non-riding public by licensing the name harley-davidson and other trademarks owned by the company for use on a range of products. patents and trademarks the company strategically manages its portfolio of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property. the company owns, and continues to obtain, patent rights that relate to its motorcycles and related products and processes for their production. certain technology-related intellectual property is also protected, where appropriate, by license agreements, confidentiality agreements or other agreements with suppliers, employees and other third parties. the company diligently protects its intellectual property, including patents and trade secrets, and its rights to innovative and proprietary technologies and designs. this protection, including enforcement, is important as the company moves forward with investments in new products, designs and technologies. while the company believes patents are important to its business 5 operations and in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, the success of the business is not dependent on any one patent or group of patents. the company's active patent portfolio has an average age of approximately six years. a patent review committee manages the patent strategy and portfolio of the company. trademarks are important to the company's motorcycle business and licensing activities. the company has a vigorous worldwide program of trademark registration and enforcement to maintain and strengthen the value of the trademarks and prevent the unauthorized use of those trademarks. the harley-davidson trademark and the bar and shield trademark are each highly recognizable to the public and are very valuable assets. additionally, the company uses numerous other trademarks, trade names and logos which are registered worldwide. the following are among the company's trademarks: harley-davidson, h-d, harley, the bar &amp; shield logo, motorclothes, the motorclothes logo, the willie g skull logo, harley owners group, h.o.g., the h.o.g. logo, livewire, softail and sportster. the harley-davidson trademark has been used since 1903 and the bar and shield trademark since at least 1910. substantially all of the company's trademarks are owned by h-d u.s.a., llc, a subsidiary of the company, which also manages the company's global trademark strategy and portfolio. marketing the company's brand, products and the riding experience are marketed to consumers worldwide. marketing occurs primarily through digital and experiential activities as well as through more traditional promotional and advertising activities. additionally, the company's independent dealers engage in a wide range of local marketing and events in part supported by cooperative programs with the company. experiences that build community and connect consumers with the harley-davidson brand and with one another have traditionally been at the center of much of the company's marketing efforts. to develop, engage and retain committed riders, the company participates in and sponsors motorcycle rallies, racing activities, music festivals, sports events and other special events. this includes events sponsored by the harley owners group (h.o.g. ) to build community and connect harley-davidson motorcycle riders around the world. these activities help inspire interest in riding, foster moto-culture and build a passionate community of harley-davidson riders. harley-davidson offers rider education that eliminates barriers and creates opportunities for learning and building rider confidence. harley-davidson riding academy courses are conducted by participating independent harley-davidson dealerships in the u.s. and select international locations, enabling students to experience the harley-davidson brand, products and community as they learn. the company also promotes its brand, products and community through a variety of other activities and experiences. motorcycle rentals and tours are offered through an agreement with eaglerider at select independent dealerships across the u.s. and through the company's authorized rental program outside of the u.s. factory tours at select locations offer a chance to see harley-davidson employees channel their passion and pride into building harley-davidson's extraordinary motorcycles. the harley-davidson museum is a unique destination that builds and strengthens the connection between riders and the brand and enhances the perception of harley-davidson among the public at large. distribution the company's products are retailed primarily through a network of independent dealers, of which the majority sell harley-davidson motorcycles exclusively. these dealerships stock and sell the company's motorcycles, p&amp;a, general merchandise and licensed products, and perform service on harley-davidson motorcycles. the company believes the quality retail experience that its independent dealers provide is a differentiating and strategic advantage for the company. the company sells its motorcycles and related products to a network of independent harley-davidson dealers located in approximately 100 countries worldwide. worldwide harley-davidson independent dealership points by geographic location as of december 31, 2019 were as follows: u.s. canada emea asia pacific latin america total independent dealership points 698 69 423 313 66 1,569 p&amp;a, general merchandise and licensed products are also retailed through ecommerce channels in certain markets. in the u.s., the company operates an ecommerce site that offers products sold through participating authorized u.s. independent harley-davidson dealers and also sells directly to consumers through a well-known third-party ecommerce website. in select international markets, the company utilizes additional third-party ecommerce websites. retail customer and dealer financing the company believes that hdfs, as well as other third-party financial institutions, provide access to financing for independent harley-davidson dealers and their retail customers. hdfs provides financing to independent harley-davidson dealers and their retail customers in the u.s. and canada. the company's independent dealers and their retail customers in emea, asia pacific and latin america generally have access to financing through third-party financial institutions, some of which have licensing or branding agreements with hdfs. 6 seasonality the timing of retail sales made by the company's independent dealers tracks closely with regional riding seasons. the seasonality of the company's wholesale motorcycle shipments generally correlates with the timing of retail sales. motorcycle manufacturing the company has flexible manufacturing capabilities designed to help ensure it is well-positioned to meet customer demand in a timely and cost-effective manner. (1) these capabilities allow the company to increase the production of motorcycles ahead of and during the peak retail selling season to more closely correlate the timing of production and wholesale shipments to the retail selling season. it also allows the company to respond to the desired model mix to meet customer demand. the majority of the company's manufacturing processes are performed at facilities located in the u.s. the company's u.s. manufacturing facilities supply the u.s. market as well as certain international markets. additionally, the company operates facilities in thailand, brazil, and india. the company's thailand facility manufactures motorcycles for certain asian markets and, commencing in late 2019, the european union. in brazil and india, the company operates complete knock down assembly facilities, which assemble motorcycles for those respective markets from component kits sourced from the company's u.s. facilities and suppliers. additionally, in india, the company produces harley-davidson street motorcycles for distribution to markets outside of north america. the company's global manufacturing operations are focused on driving world-class quality and performance. a global manufacturing footprint enables the company to be close to customers, provide quality products at a competitive price and grow its overall business. raw materials and purchased components the company continues to establish and reinforce long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers. through these collaborative relationships, the company gains access to technical and commercial resources for application directly to product design, development and manufacturing initiatives. in addition, through a continued focus on collaboration and strong supplier relationships, the company believes it will be positioned to achieve its strategic objectives and deliver cost and quality improvements over the long-term. (1) the company's principal raw materials include steel and aluminum castings, forgings, steel sheet and bar. the company also purchases certain motorcycle components including, but not limited to, electronic fuel injection systems, batteries, tires, seats, electrical components, instruments and wheels. the company closely monitors the overall viability of its supply base. the company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining raw materials or components. (1) regulation international, federal, state and local authorities have various environmental control requirements relating to air, water and noise that affect the business and operations of the company. the company strives to ensure that its facilities and products comply with all applicable environmental regulations and standards. the company's motorcycles and certain other products that are sold in the u.s. are subject to certification by the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) for compliance with applicable emissions and noise standards. certain harley-davidson products are designed to comply with epa and carb standards and the company believes it will comply with future requirements when they go into effect. (1) additionally, certain of the company's products must comply with the motorcycle emissions, noise and safety standards of canada, the european union, japan, brazil and certain other foreign markets where they are sold, and the company believes its products currently comply with those standards. as the company expects environmental standards will become more stringent over time, the company will continue to incur research, development and production costs in this area for the foreseeable future. (1) the company, as a manufacturer of motorcycle products, is subject to the u.s. national traffic and motor vehicle safety act, which is administered by the u.s. national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa). the company has certified to nhtsa that certain of its motorcycle products comply fully with all applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards and related regulations. the company has from time to time initiated certain voluntary recalls. during the three years ending in 2019 , the company accrued $83.4 million associated with 13 voluntary recalls related to harley-davidson motorcycles. employees as of december 31, 2019 , the motorcycles segment had approximately 5,000 employees, including approximately 2,000 unionized employees at its u.s. manufacturing facilities. unionized employees are represented with collective bargaining agreements as follows: york, pennsylvania international association of machinist and aerospace workers (iam), agreement will expire on october 15, 2022 milwaukee, wisconsin united steelworkers of america (usw) and iam, agreements will expire on march 31, 2024 tomahawk, wisconsin usw, agreement will expire on march 31, 2024 7 financial services segment the financial services segment consists of hdfs which is engaged in the business of financing and servicing wholesale inventory receivables and retail consumer loans, primarily for the purchase of harley-davidson motorcycles. hdfs also works with certain unaffiliated insurance companies to provide motorcycle insurance and protection products to motorcycle owners. hdfs conducts business principally in the u.s. and canada. the company's independent dealers and their retail customers in emea, asia pacific and latin america generally have access to financing through third-party financial institutions, some of which have licensing agreements with hdfs. wholesale financial services hdfs provides wholesale financial services to u.s. and canadian independent harley-davidson dealers, including floorplan and open account financing of motorcycles and p&amp;a. all u.s. and canadian independent dealers utilized hdfs' financing programs at some point during 2019 . retail financial services hdfs provides retail financing to consumers, consisting primarily of installment lending for the purchase of new and used harley-davidson motorcycles. hdfs' retail financial services are available through most independent harley-davidson dealerships in the u.s. and canada. insurance services hdfs works with certain unaffiliated insurance companies which offer point-of-sale protection products through most independent harley-davidson dealers in the u.s. and canada, including motorcycle insurance, extended service contracts and motorcycle maintenance protection. hdfs also direct-markets motorcycle insurance and extended service contracts to owners of harley-davidson motorcycles. in addition, hdfs markets a comprehensive package of business insurance coverages and services to owners of independent harley-davidson dealerships. licensing hdfs has licensing arrangements with third-party financial institutions that issue credit cards bearing the harley-davidson brand in the u.s. and certain international markets. internationally, hdfs licenses the harley-davidson brand to local third-party financial institutions that offer products to the company's retail customers such as financing and insurance. funding the company believes a diversified and cost-effective funding strategy is important to meet hdfs' goal of providing credit while delivering appropriate returns and profitability. financial services operations in 2019 were funded with unsecured debt, unsecured commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper conduit facilities, committed unsecured bank facilities and asset-backed securitizations. competition the company regards its ability to offer a package of wholesale and retail financial services in the u.s. and canada as a significant competitive advantage. competitors in the financial services industry compete for business based largely on price and, to a lesser extent, service. hdfs competes on convenience, service, brand association, dealer relations, industry experience, terms and price. in the u.s. and canada, hdfs financed 65.9% and 45.0% of new harley-davidson motorcycles retailed by independent dealers during 2019 , respectively, compared to 64.9% and 39.9% , respectively, in 2018 . competitors for retail motorcycle finance business are primarily banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. in the motorcycle insurance business, competition primarily comes from national insurance companies and from insurance agencies serving local or regional markets. for insurance-related products such as extended service contracts, hdfs faces competition from certain regional and national industry participants as well as dealer in-house programs. competition for the wholesale motorcycle finance business primarily consists of banks and other financial institutions providing wholesale financing to independent harley-davidson dealers in their local markets. trademarks hdfs uses various trademarks and trade names for its financial services and products, which are licensed from h-d u.s.a., llc, including harley-davidson, h-d and the bar &amp; shield logo. seasonality hdfs experiences seasonal variations in retail financing activities based on the timing of regional riding seasons in the u.s. and canada. in general, from mid-march through august, retail financing volume is greatest. hdfs wholesale financing volume is affected by inventory levels at independent harley-davidson dealers. independent dealers generally have higher inventory in the first half of the year. as a result, outstanding wholesale finance receivables are generally higher during the same period. regulation hdfs operations are generally subject to supervision and regulation by federal and state administrative agencies and various foreign governmental authorities. many of the requirements imposed by such entities are in place to provide consumer protection as it pertains to the selling and servicing of financial products and services. therefore, hdfs operations may be subject to limitations imposed by regulations, laws and judicial and/or administrative decisions. in the u.s., 8 for example, applicable laws include the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act and fair credit reporting act. depending on the specific facts and circumstances involved, non-compliance with these laws may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, entitling the borrower to rescind the loan or to obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, or could subject hdfs to the payment of damages or penalties and administrative sanctions, including cease and desist orders, and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs' securitization programs. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act granted the federal consumer financial protection bureau (the bureau) significant supervisory, enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. certain bureau actions and regulations will directly impact hdfs and its operations. for example, the bureau has supervisory authority over non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market, which includes a non-bank subsidiary of hdfs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision also could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business. noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines, criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. eaglemark savings bank (esb), a subsidiary of hdfs, is a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. the activities of esb are governed by federal laws and regulations and state of nevada banking laws. esb is subject to examination by the federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic) and nevada state bank examiners. esb originates retail loans and sells the loans to a non-banking subsidiary of hdfs. this process allows hdfs to offer retail products with many common characteristics across the u.s. and to similarly service loans to u.s. retail customers. employees as of december 31, 2019 , the financial services segment had approximately 600 employees. internet access the company's website address is http://www.harley-davidson.com . the company's website address for investor relations is http://investor.harley-davidson.com/ . the company's annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports, are available on its investor relations website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the united states securities and exchange commission (sec). in addition, the company makes available, through its investor relations website, the following corporate governance materials: (i) the company's corporate governance policy; (ii) committee charters approved by the company's board of directors for the audit and finance committee, human resources committee, nominating and corporate governance committee and brand and sustainability committee; (iii) the company's financial code of ethics; (iv) the company's code of business conduct (the code of conduct); (v) the conflict of interest process for directors, executive officers and other employees (the conflict process); (vi) a list of the company's board of directors; (vii) the company's bylaws; (viii) the company's environmental and energy policy; (ix) the company's policy for managing disclosure of material information; (x) the company's supplier code of conduct; (xi) the sustainability strategy report; (xii) the california transparency in supply chain act disclosure; (xiii) the statement on conflict minerals; (xiv) the political engagement and contributions 2018-2019; and (xv) the company's clawback policy. the company's notice of annual meeting and proxy statement for its 2020 annual meeting of shareholders, which will include information related to the compensation of the company's named executive officers, will be made available through its investor relations website. the company satisfies the disclosure requirements under the code of conduct, the conflict process and applicable new york stock exchange listing requirements regarding waivers of the code of conduct or the conflict process by disclosing the information in the company's proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders or on its investor relations website. the company is not including the information contained on or available through any of its websites as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this annual report on form 10-k. 9 item 1a. risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its short-term and long-term business plans and strategies. there is no assurance that the company will be able to execute its business plans and strategies, including the elements of the more roads plan for growth that the company disclosed on july 30, 2018 and updated september 24, 2019, and strengthen its existing business while enabling growth. the company's ability to meet the objectives, milestones, outlooks, and goals in the more roads plan depends upon, among other factors, the company's ability to: (i) realize expectations concerning market demand for electric, middleweight, and small-displacement models, which may depend in part on the building of necessary infrastructure, (ii) develop and introduce products on a timely basis that the market accepts, that enable the company to generate desired sales levels and that provide the desired financial returns, (iii) successfully carry out its global manufacturing and assembly operations, (iv) manage risks that arise through expanding international manufacturing, operations and sales, (v) effectively implement changes relating to its dealers and distribution methods, (vi) accurately analyze, predict and react to changing market conditions, (vii) perform in a manner that enables the company to benefit from market opportunities while competing against existing and new competitors, (viii) reduce other costs to offset costs of the more roads plan and redirect capital without adversely affecting its existing operations, and (ix) avoid adverse impacts to its operations and/or demand for its products that may result from widespread infectious disease, in particular as it relates to its small displacement plans in asia. without limitation, the company sees 2020 as the pivotal year in the transformation of the company under the more roads plan, and the company faces challenges, risks and uncertainties in executing the plan. as a result, the company may not realize its expectation of significant growth in 2021 or its goals for 2022 under the plan. the company also may not be able to achieve the 2027 objectives under the company's long-term strategy to build the next generation of harley-davidson riders globally. the company's strategy to grow ridership may not be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of harley-davidson motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must grow the sport of motorcycling and continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to new customers, including new riders, competitive riders and those who have motorcycle licenses but do not currently ride. the company's efforts toward expanding to 4 million total harley-davidson riders in the u.s. through 2027 and growing ridership internationally may not be successful, and achieving such growth in ridership may still not adequately meet the desired result of driving unit sales growth. further, growing ridership in the u.s. may be challenging because the motorcycle market in the u.s. has been stagnant or declining, and the company expects those conditions to continue. failure to successfully drive demand for the company's products may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technologies, and at the same time, it is subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies that consumers desire. the company may not be able to achieve its goal of introducing 100 new, high-impact motorcycle models between 2017 and 2027, and introducing those models may still not lead to the desired result of driving unit sales growth. as the company incorporates new and different features and technology into its products, the company must protect its intellectual property from imitators and ensure its products do not infringe the intellectual property of other companies. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements to respond to changing consumer preferences and market demands. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to a global marketplace in an efficient and timely manner and at prices that are attractive to customers. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. changes in general economic and business conditions, tightening of credit and retail markets, political events or other factors may adversely impact independent dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. weakened economic conditions in certain business sectors and geographic areas can also result in reduced demand for the company's products. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of 10 motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. increased supply of and/or declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supply of new motorcycles may adversely impact retail sales of new motorcycles by the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that when the supply of used motorcycles increases or the prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles decline, there can be reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). further, the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that influence the markets for new and used harley-davidson motorcycles. for example, introduction of new motorcycle models with significantly different functionality, technology or other customer satisfiers can result in increased supply of used motorcycles, which could result in declining prices for used motorcycles and prior model-year new motorcycles. also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, those steps may not be effective, or the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale finance receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer, including the company's independent dealers, to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms and customer credit profiles. credit losses are also influenced by the markets for new and used motorcycles, and the company and its independent dealers can and do take actions that impact those markets. for example, the introduction of new models by the company that represent significant upgrades on previous models may result in increased supply or decreased demand in the market for used harley-davidson branded motorcycles, including those motorcycles that serve as collateral or security for credit that hdfs has extended. this in turn could adversely impact the prices at which repossessed motorcycles may be sold, which may lead to increased credit losses for hdfs. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may continue to increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior, hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals to sub-prime borrowers, and new financing programs that may result in different loan performance than our existing programs. the motorcycle industry has become increasingly competitive. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and as price becomes a more important factor for consumers in the markets in which the company competes, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can enable them to reduce prices to u.s. consumers. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. the company's responses to these competitive pressures, or its failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures, may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. expanding international sales and operations subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales and operations is a part of the company's long-term business strategy, particularly in light of the u.s. market conditions. there is no assurance that the company will accomplish this international expansion. further, to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government laws and regulations and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to international operations, the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. this includes, for example, the uncertainty related to the impact of united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union (eu) 11 (commonly known as brexit ). business practices that may be accepted in other countries can violate u.s. or other laws that apply to the company. violations of laws that apply to the company's foreign operations, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt the company's business and result in an adverse effect on the company's reputation, business and results of operations. changes in trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs, their enforcement and downstream consequences, may continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and outlook. tariffs and/or other developments with respect to trade policies, trade agreements and government regulations could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. recent tariffs imposed by the eu and china resulted in material increases to the company's operating costs in 2018 and 2019. in 2018, the eu placed a 25% incremental tariff (31% total tariff) on motorcycles imported into the eu from the u.s., which is scheduled to increase to a 50% incremental tariff (56% total tariff) effective june 1, 2021. in addition, the u.s. government has imposed increased tariffs on imports from china (section 301 tariffs), which has resulted in higher costs for components and products sourced from china. in 2019, the company obtained regulatory approvals that allow it to supply its eu markets with touring, softail and sportster motorcycles produced at its thailand operations at reduced tariff rates of 6%. these motorcycles will not be subject to the current 31% or future 56% tariffs that apply to motorcycles sourced from the company's u.s. facilities. the company expects wholesale shipments of thailand-sourced lower-tariff motorcycles in the eu to begin early in the second quarter of 2020 (1) . certain trike and cvo models will continue to be sourced from the u.s. and will remain subject to the higher eu tariffs. recent u.s. tariffs on imports from china remain largely unmitigated and are expected to cost the company approximately $15 million in 2020 (1) . the on-going impact of these tariffs will depend on future trade discussions between the u.s. and china or the company's ability to avoid or offset these costs should the tariffs remain in place. without limitation, (i) tariffs currently in place, (ii) the imposition by the u.s. government of new tariffs on imports to the u.s. and/or (iii) the imposition by foreign countries of tariffs on u.s. products, including tariffs imposed in response to u.s. tariffs, could materially increase: (a) the cost of harley-davidson products that the company is offering for sale in relevant countries, (b) the cost of certain products that the company sources from foreign manufacturers and (c) the prices of certain raw materials that the company utilizes. the company may not be able to pass such increased costs on to independent dealers or their customers, and the company may not be able to secure sources of certain products and materials that are not subject to tariffs on a timely basis. such developments could have a material adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. based on the company's strategy, the company may, from time to time, open, close, expand, contract or restructure one or more of its manufacturing facilities. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is a key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner (1) . to execute this strategy, the company must be successful in its implementation of facility changes and in its continuous improvement efforts, all of which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company must prevent and detect issues with its products, components purchased from suppliers and its suppliers' manufacturing processes to reduce recall campaigns, warranty costs, litigation, product liability claims, delays in new model launches and regulatory investigations. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes and ensure that its suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers adhere to product development and manufacturing processes, to ensure high quality products are sold to retail customers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, field actions such as product programs and product recalls, inquiries or investigations from regulatory agencies, and warranty claims and product liability claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liabilities and appropriately reflects those in its financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates and result in damages that are not covered by insurance. further, selling products with poor quality, the announcement of recalls and the filing of product liability claims (whether or not successful), may also adversely affect the company's reputation and brand strength. 12 a cybersecurity breach may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party service providers and vendors receive, store and transmit digital personal information in connection with the company's human resources operations, financial services operations, e-commerce, the harley owners group, dealer management, mobile applications, planned connected vehicle services offerings and other aspects of its business. the company's information systems, and those of its third-party service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to continually evolving cybersecurity risks. the company's plan to offer connected vehicle services will heighten these risks. unauthorized parties have attempted to and may attempt in the future to gain access to these systems or the information the company and its third-party service providers and vendors maintain and use through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees and third-party service providers and vendors. hardware, software or applications the company develops or obtains from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security and/or the company's operations. the methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect. the company has implemented and regularly reviews and updates processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. however, the ever-evolving threats mean the company and third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. the company has experienced information security attacks, but to date they have not materially compromised the company's computing environment or resulted in a material impact on the company's business or operations or the release of confidential information about employees, customers, dealers, suppliers or other third parties. any future significant compromise or breach of the company's data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, employee, dealer, supplier or company data could result in disruption to the company's operations, significant costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits and/or damage to the company's reputation. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous with new and evolving requirements, compliance could also result in the company being required to incur additional costs. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, a weakening in those foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar can adversely affect the company's revenue margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. furthermore, many competitors headquartered outside the u.s. experience a financial benefit from a strengthening in the u.s. dollar relative to their home currency that can enable them to reduce prices to u.s. consumers. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to some extent to attempt to manage a portion of its exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rate risks, the company does not attempt to manage its entire expected exposure, and these derivative financial instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company relies on third-party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems relating to raw materials and components such as unfavorable pricing, poor quality or untimely delivery. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material, natural disasters or widespread infectious disease. further, the company's suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. changes in laws and policies relating to trade and taxation may also adversely impact the company's foreign suppliers. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 13 the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including skilled labor, executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization and to effectively execute reorganization actions within expected costs and realize the expected benefits of those actions. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance, and the company must effectively execute reorganization actions. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company primarily sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions, such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if independent dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain independent dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of independent dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former independent dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that independent dealer. the financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital and reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers. additionally, the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, then the company's cost of borrowing could increase, which may result in reduced earnings and reduced interest margins, and the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency and to mitigate failure risks from older/aged technologies currently in its portfolio. the company has several large, strategic information system projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations. also, older technologies may fail, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. in the case of the company's planned electronic vehicle services offering, these risks are heightened because these services are dependent on (i) the successful implementation of complex third-party cloud solutions, (ii) the ability of a rider's motorcycle and mobile application to successfully connect to each other and (iii) the support of cellular carriers. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. u.s. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect the company's international sales operations. 14 the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency (epa), securities and exchange commission (sec), national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including independent dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations tax the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. federal and state jurisdictions and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities including the impact of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (2017 tax act). the company believes that it complies with applicable tax laws. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable laws or if there is a change in tax laws, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. to the extent there are considerable changes to tax laws, the company may need to readjust its tax strategy, and may not be able to take full advantage of such changes. environmental the majority of the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as the california air resources board and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes and related changes in consumer preferences, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. financial services the company's financial services operations are governed by a wide range of u.s. federal and state and foreign laws that regulate financial and lending institutions, and financial services activities. in the u.s. for example, these laws include the federal truth-in-lending act, equal credit opportunity act and fair credit reporting act. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. u.s. federal and state bodies may in the future impose additional laws, regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. violations of, or non-compliance with, relevant laws and regulations may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages, civil fines, or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision also could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business, such as through the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed in ways that are adverse to hdfs, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that laws and regulations will not attempt to limit the interest rates or convenience fees charged by hdfs, any of which may adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) is a sweeping piece of legislation impacting financial services and the full effect continues to evolve as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by stakeholders and the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the consumer financial protection bureau (the bureau). the bureau has significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the bureau will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet fully known and subject to change. compliance may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply, as well as changes to laws and regulations, or the imposition of additional laws and regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. the bureau also has supervisory authority over certain 15 non-bank larger participants in the vehicle financing market, which includes a non-bank subsidiary of hdfs, allowing the bureau to conduct comprehensive and rigorous on-site examinations that could result in enforcement actions, fines, changes to processes and procedures, product-related changes or consumer refunds, or other actions. u.s. public company the company is also subject to policies and actions of the sec and new york stock exchange (nyse). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. weather may impact retail sales by the company's independent dealers. the company has observed that abnormally cold and/or wet conditions in a region, including impacts from hurricanes or unusual storms, could have the effect of reducing demand or changing the timing for purchases of new harley-davidson motorcycles. reduced demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles ultimately leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . a substantial portion of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. hdmc is currently a party to three collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in wisconsin will expire in 2024, and the agreement with employees in pennsylvania will expire in 2022. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. the company's decisions regarding opening, closing, expanding, contracting or restructuring its facilities may require changes to existing or new bargaining agreements. failure to renew agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the ability of the company to expand international sales may be impacted by existing or new laws and regulations that impose motorcycle licensing restrictions and limit access to roads and highways. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. a number of countries have tiered motorcycle licensing requirements that limit the ability of new and younger riders to obtain licenses to operate the company's motorcycles, and many countries are considering the implementation of such requirements. these requirements only allow new and/or younger riders to operate smaller displacement motorcycles for certain periods of time. riders typically are only permitted to obtain a license to ride larger displacement motorcycles upon reaching certain ages and/or having been licensed to ride smaller displacement motorcycles for a certain period of time, and only after passing additional tests and paying additional fees. these requirements pose obstacles to large displacement motorcycle ownership. other countries have laws and regulations that prohibit motorcycles from being operated on certain roads and highways. these types of laws and regulations could adversely impact the company's plans to expand international sales. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to item 3. legal proceedings in this form 10-k and in the other periodic reports that the company files with the sec for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company, its suppliers and its independent dealers must successfully accommodate a seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers. the company's flexible production capability allows it to more closely correlate motorcycle production and wholesale shipments with the retail selling season. any difficulties in executing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company, its suppliers and its independent dealers must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company, its suppliers or its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 16 the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liabilities, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its corporate governance practices and operating ethics. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance and operating ethics. the company has a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance and strong operating ethics may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several u.s. states, including states where the company has manufacturing facilities, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the u.s., including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing facilities use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's facilities emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. regulations related to materials that the company purchases to use in its products could cause the company to incur additional expenses and may have other adverse consequences. laws or regulations impacting the company's supply chain, such as the uk modern slavery act, could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the raw materials that the company uses in the manufacturing of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to fully understand its supply chain, then the company may face reputational challenges with customers, investors or others and other adverse consequences. for example, many countries in which the company distributes its products are beginning to introduce regulations that require knowledge and disclosure of virtually all materials and chemicals in the company's products. accordingly, the company could incur significant costs related to the process of complying with these laws, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. the company relies on third parties to perform certain operating and administrative functions for the company. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, these suppliers may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. in light of the amount and types of functions that the company has outsourced, these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation, and specifically disclaims any such obligation, to update these risk factors or any other 17 forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risk. further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements . the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings are affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies. the company's most significant foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to the euro, australian dollar, japanese yen, brazilian real, canadian dollar, mexican peso, indian rupee, and pound sterling. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of certain currencies' fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar, japanese yen, brazilian real, canadian dollar, mexican peso, indian rupee, and pound sterling foreign currency contracts was $654.5 million and $443.0 million , respectively. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $65.5 million and $39.9 million as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the company's earnings are affected by changes in the prices of commodities used in the production of motorcycles. the company uses derivative financial instruments on a limited basis to hedge the prices of certain commodities. at december 31, 2019, the notional value of these instruments was $8.9 million and the fair value was a net liability of $0.1 million . as of december 31, 2018 , the notional value of these instruments was $6.1 million and the fair value was a net liability of $0.5 million . the potential decrease in fair value of these contracts from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would not be significant. 40 hdfs' earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs' interest rate sensitive financial instruments include finance receivables, debt and interest rate derivatives. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps and caps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt. as of december 31, 2019 , hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $900.0 million and interest rate caps outstanding with a notional value of $376.0 million. as of december 31, 2018 , hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $900.0 million and no outstanding interest rate caps. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of the interest rate swap and cap agreements of $10.2 million and $8.3 million as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. hdfs has currency exposure related to financing in currencies other than the functional currency. hdfs utilizes cross-currency swaps to mitigate the effect of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2019 , hdfs' exposure relates to the euro. as of december 31, 2019 , hdfs had a cross-currency swap outstanding with a notional value of $660.8 million. as of december 31, 2018, hdfs had no cross-currency swaps outstanding. hdfs estimates that a 10% adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rate would result in a $4.6 million decrease in the fair value of the swap agreement. hdfs has short-term commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities that is subject to changes in interest rates. hdfs estimates that a one-percentage point increase in the interest rate on commercial paper and debt issued through the commercial paper conduit facilities would increase financial services interest expense in 2020 by approximately $10.4 million. this analysis does not consider the effects of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. further, in the event of a change in interest rates, hdfs may take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis does not account for these impacts. 41quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. a discussion of the company accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is included in the summary of significant accounting policies in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements and further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. as a result, the company earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2006, these contracts represented a combined u.s. dollar equivalent of $360.3 million. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the dollar relative to the currency underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $37.2 million as of december 31, 2006. the company exposure to the japanese yen is substantially offset by the existence of a natural hedge, which is sustained through offsetting yen cash inflows from sales with yen cash outflows for motorcycle component purchases and other operating expenses. hdfs earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its securitization transactions and debt. as of december 31, 2006, hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $1.25 billion. hdfs estimates that a 10% increase in interest rates would result in a $1.6 million decrease in the fair value of the agreements. 53risk factors 15 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand for the motorcycles and related products and services they purchase from the company. if the company independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and to meet its financial expectations. the company and its independent dealers must balance the economies of level production with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. the company generally records the sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company independent dealers and distributors. in the past, the company has not experienced seasonal fluctuations in its wholesale motorcycle sales, and as a result, the company has been able to maintain production that is relatively level. also, in more recent years, the company increased the availability of its motorcycles at dealerships to help improve the customer experience. the increased availability of motorcycles has resulted in the timing of retail purchases tracking more closely with regional motorcycle riding seasons. this requires the company to adapt its methods for allocating its products to its dealer network so that allocation methods are aligned with retail demand. in addition, the company independent dealers and distributors must manage seasonal increases in inventory. as a result, the company and its independent dealers and distributors must balance the economies of level production with the inventory costs associated with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. failure to balance the two, or the inability of the company to adequately adjust its allocation methods, may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company dealers may experience a decline in retail sales resulting from slowing economic growth, political events or other factors . the motorcycle industry can be affected by general economic and political conditions, among other factors, over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors may cause a weak retail environment for discretionary purchases and the decision to purchase a motorcycle may be affected by these factors. should industry demand decline, our results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the company has a number of competitors of varying sizes that are based both inside and outside the united states some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in the automotive market or all segments of the motorcycle market. also, the company manufacturer suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle market, the company may have a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company financial services operations face significant competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, some of which are larger and offer more financial products than the company. failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures worldwide may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company marketing strategy of associating its motorcycle products with a motorcycling lifestyle may not be successful with future customers. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of motorcycling. this lifestyle is now more typically associated with a retail customer base comprised of individuals who are, on average, in their mid-forties. to sustain long-term growth, the company must continue to be successful in promoting motorcycling to customers new to the sport of motorcycling including women, younger riders and more ethnically diverse riders. 15 the company success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company prospects for future growth are largely dependent upon its ability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to advance in terms of cutting edge styling and new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors products with unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property from imitators. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in a timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company new products. the company motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor. substantially all of the hourly employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america that expire during march 2008, february 2010 and july 2012. these collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms as favorable to the company as past labor agreements. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company business and results of operations. the company operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees. the company future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and cash bonuses, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company existing employees. if the company does not succeed in attracting personnel or retaining and motivating existing personnel, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and grow effectively. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to pension benefits and providing healthcare for its employees. the company estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other post-retirement healthcare benefits require the use of assumptions. they include the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary increases, medical costs, retirement age and mortality). actual results may differ which may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders equity. in addition, rising healthcare and retirement benefit costs in the united states may put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to our competitors. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company products, the company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. 16 the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company cannot be certain that it will not experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company control such as increased worldwide demand. further, company suppliers who also serve the automotive industry may be experiencing financial difficulties due to a downturn in that industry. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company must maintain its reputation of being a good corporate citizen and treating customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders fairly. the company has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act ), the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain this reputation may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. these are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. see item 3. legal proceedings for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company international sales operations may also be adversely affected by united states laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the united states and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. the company domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency, sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of 17 state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. our motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as carb, and other regulatory agencies around the world. we are also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of our manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing our products. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, we may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require us to spend additional funds on research, product development, implementation costs and subject us to the risk that our competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. the company financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the company financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may affect the earnings of the financial services operations and have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. any unauthorized release of consumer data may subject the company to liability and adversely affect the company reputation. in addition, the company is also subject to policies and actions of the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. breaches of security involving consumers personal data may adversely affect the company reputation, revenue and earnings. the company receives and stores personal information in connection with its financial services operations, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. breach of the systems on which sensitive consumer information is stored or other unauthorized release of consumer information may adversely affect the company reputation and lead to claims against the company. the company financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund its operations at attractive interest rates. the company ability to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by its short term and long term credit ratings. the company currently has strong credit ratings; however, in november 2007 standard &amp; poor ratings services lowered the company long term corporate credit ratings. if the company credit ratings are downgraded further, its cost of borrowing may be adversely affected resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins. the company financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations . liquidity is essential to the company financial services business. the financial services business may be negatively affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets. factors that it cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry in general, may impair our ability to raise funding. the company financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the company. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. negative changes in general 18 business, economic or market factors may adversely impact the company credit losses and future earnings. credit exposure is significantly sensitive to any decline in new and used motorcycle prices. in addition, the frequency of losses may be negatively influenced by adverse changes in macro-economic factors, such as unemployment rates and bankruptcy filings. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. earnings from the company financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. the company uses derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risks. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. a discussion of the company accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is included in the summary of significant accounting policies in note 1 of notes to the consolidated financial statements and further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 10 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. as a result, the company earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2007, these contracts represented a combined u.s. dollar equivalent of $227.8 million. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the dollar relative to the currency underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $24.8 million as of december 31, 2007. the company exposure to the japanese yen is substantially offset by the existence of a natural hedge, which is sustained through offsetting yen cash inflows from sales with yen cash outflows for motorcycle component purchases and other operating expenses. hdfs earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its securitization transactions and debt. hdfs also entered into derivative contracts to facilitate its third quarter securitization transaction. these derivatives, which hedge assets by an off-balance sheet qspe, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in current period earnings within other operating expenses. as of december 31, 2007, hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $2.00 billion. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a $1.2 million decrease in the fair value of the agreements. 54risk factors 13 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company must effectively execute the company restructuring plans within expected costs. in january 2009, the company announced a combination of restructuring actions that are designed to reduce excess capacity, exit non-core business operations and lower the company cost structure. effectively executing these plans within expected costs and realizing expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the time required to complete planned actions, effective collaboration and agreement with the company union partners, the absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions, availability of and effective use of third party service providers to assist in implementing the actions, avoidance of unexpected disruptions in production, retention of key employees involved in implementing the restructuring plans and the ability of the company to sell or lease vacated facilities. 13 table of contents the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers and distributors purchase from the company. if the company independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations because of weakened retail sales and tightening credit. the company dealers may experience a further decline in retail sales resulting from general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors. the motorcycle industry has been affected by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors have caused a weaker retail environment leading to weaker demand for discretionary purchases and the decision to purchase a motorcycle has been and may continue to be affected by these factors. the related tightening of credit has led to more limited availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand continue to decline, our results of operations and financial condition may be further substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. the company and its independent dealers must balance the economies of level production with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. the company generally records the sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company independent dealers and distributors. in the past few years, increased availability of harley-davidson motorcycles has resulted in the timing of retail purchases tracking more closely with regional motorcycle riding seasons. the seasonality of the company wholesale shipments affects its ability to continue to maintain relatively level production, inventories and shipments throughout the year. as a result, the company and its independent dealers and distributors must balance the economies of level production with the inventory and other costs associated with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. failure to balance the two, or any failure of the company to adequately adjust its methods of distributing motorcycles among its independent dealers and distributors, may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company cannot be certain that it will not experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company control such as the supply of a necessary raw material. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty due to financial market disruption in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit, and those suppliers who also serve the automotive industry may be experiencing financial difficulties due to a downturn in that industry, which could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. recent and any future government actions to stabilize credit markets and financial institutions or other industries may not be effective. the u.s. government recently enacted legislation and created several programs to help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity, including the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008, the federal reserve commercial paper funding facility (cpff) and money market investor funding facility and 14 table of contents the federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic) temporary liquidity guarantee program. additionally, the governments of many countries have announced similar measures for institutions in their respective countries. further measures may be forthcoming in light of the new administration in the u.s. there is no assurance that these programs individually or collectively will have beneficial effects in the credit markets or on general economic conditions, will address credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs or will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets. the failure of these programs to have their intended effects could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economies in general, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there is also no assurance that the company will be eligible or qualify to participate in any of these programs or that the programs will directly benefit the company in any other way. to the extent that the company participates in these programs or other programs, there is no assurance that the company will continue to be eligible or qualify to participate or that such programs will remain available for sufficient periods of time or on acceptable terms to benefit the company, and the expiration of such programs could have unintended adverse effects on the company. further, as a condition to participating in any such program, the company may need to accept terms and limitations that could adversely affect the company in other ways. the company financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations and may require additional funding to repay amounts that may become due in 2009 and beyond. liquidity is essential to the company financial services business. the disruptions in the financial markets have caused many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to loan money to borrowers including financial institutions. the disruption has affected and could continue to affect the company choice of financing sources and its ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. for example, recent volatile conditions in the unsecured commercial paper and asset-backed securitization markets have made capital raising in those markets challenging. in addition, during 2008, the company financial services operations funded a greater percentage of their business through debt rather than the asset-backed securitization market as compared to 2007. the company has identified three preferred options to support the funding requirements of its financial services operations and is pursuing those options. the company will also seek to extend the credit facilities under which amounts would otherwise become due in 2009. however, there is no assurance that the efforts to pursue those options or other alternatives or to extend the facilities will be successful. if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, the company might seek to meet some liquidity needs by drawing under its existing credit facilities. however, under such extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that funds will be available under such agreements or that available funds will be sufficient. the company financial services operations may be negatively affected by the increased difficulty in raising funding in the long-term and short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing shareholders through the use of alternative sources of capital. the company financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings 15 table of contents outlook is negatively changed, the company cost of borrowing will increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. in the event of a downgrade in the company short-term rating, the company financial services operations would no longer be eligible to participate in the federal reserve commercial paper funding facility. the company financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the company financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. further negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company financial services operations credit losses and future earnings. in addition, credit exposure is significantly sensitive to any decline in new and used motorcycle prices. the recent market turmoil has resulted in the tightening of credit, a lack of consumer confidence, unemployment and increased market volatility, all of which has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies. the company had higher retail receivables outstanding during 2008 as compared to 2007, due to a reduction in asset-backed securitization activity in 2008, and therefore retained increased credit risk from retail receivables. the company has a number of competitors of varying sizes that are based both inside and outside the united states some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in the automotive market or all segments of the motorcycle market. also, the company manufacturer suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle market, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms. failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures worldwide may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company marketing strategy of associating its motorcycle products with a motorcycling lifestyle may not be successful with future customers. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of motorcycling. this lifestyle is now more typically associated with a retail customer base comprised of individuals who are, on average, in their mid-forties. to sustain long-term growth, the company must continue to be successful in promoting motorcycling to customers new to the sport of motorcycling including women, younger riders and more ethnically diverse riders. the company success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to advance in terms of cutting edge styling and new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors products with unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property from imitators. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company new products. 16 table of contents the company motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america that expire during february 2010, july 2012 and march 31, 2012. these collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms as favorable to the company as past labor agreements. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company business and results of operations. the company operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including executive officers. the company future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and cash bonuses, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company existing employees. if the company does not succeed in attracting personnel or retaining and motivating existing personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and post-retirement healthcare benefits are based on several factors that are outside the company control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets medical costs, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders equity. in addition, costs associated with these defined-benefit retirement plans put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to our competitors. due to significant declines in worldwide financial market conditions during 2008, the funded status of the company pension and postretirement healthcare plans was adversely affected. the company is expecting it will have to make additional contributions of approximately $40 million to $80 million to further fund its pension and postretirement healthcare plans during 2009 beyond the amount of current benefit payments for supplemental employee retirement plans and agreements and postretirement healthcare plans. also during 2009, the company expects to continue its practice of funding the supplemental plans and agreements and postretirement healthcare plans in amounts equal to benefits paid during the year. for future years, the company currently anticipates that additional contributions, beyond the amount of expected benefit payments, will be needed to pre-fund the pension and postretirement healthcare plans. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company products, the company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. 17 table of contents the company must maintain its reputation of being a good corporate citizen and treating customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders fairly. the company has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act ), the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain this reputation may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. these are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. refer to the company disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company international sales operations may also be adversely affected by united states laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the united states and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. the company domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency ( epa ), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. our motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and 18 table of contents regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where our motorcycle products are sold. we are also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of our manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing our products. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, we may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require us to spend additional funds on research, product development, implementation costs and subject us to the risk that our competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. the company financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the company financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may affect the earnings of the financial services operations and have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. in addition, the company is also subject to policies and actions of the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. breaches of security involving consumers personal data may adversely affect the company reputation, revenue and earnings. the company receives and stores personal information in connection with its financial services operations, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. breach of the systems on which sensitive consumer information is stored or other unauthorized release of consumer information may adversely affect the company reputation and lead to claims against the company. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. the company uses derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates, commodity price and interest rate risks. also, these transactions may expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. as a result, the company earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar and the brazilian real. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of the euro and the australian dollar fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2008, the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro and australian dollar foreign currency contracts was $419.3 million. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $36.5 million as of december 31, 2008. further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in addition, the company financed its acquisition of mv agusta and its initial working capital requirements through 130.0 million of euro-denominated debt. the carrying amount of debt is measured at each balance sheet date in the u.s. dollar and the corresponding gains or losses are recognized in the income statement. the company earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt and securitization transactions. hdfs also entered into derivative contracts to facilitate its first quarter securitization transaction as well as its third quarter 2007 securitization transaction. these derivatives, which hedge assets by an off-balance sheet qualifying special purpose entity, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. additionally, to facilitate the december 2008 asset-backed commercial paper conduit facility, hdfs entered into derivative contracts, certain of which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in current period earnings within other operating expenses. as of december 31, 2008, hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $1.79 billion. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a $1.4 million decrease in the fair value of the agreements. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its new long-term business strategy. the company may not be able to successfully execute the long-term business strategy that the company announced on october 15, 2009. if the company is not able, on a timely and cost effective basis, to successfully exit certain product lines and divest certain company assets as part of the strategy, the result could be increased costs and diversion of management attention from its focus. in addition, there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through continuous improvement. expanding international sales subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales is a part of the company long-term business strategy. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. the company must effectively execute the company restructuring plans within expected costs. during 2009, the company announced a combination of restructuring actions that are designed to reduce excess capacity, exit non-core business operations and lower the company cost structure. effectively executing these plans within expected costs and realizing expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the time required to complete planned actions, effective 13 table of contents collaboration and agreement with the unions representing the company employees, the absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions, availability of and effective use of third party service providers to assist in implementing the actions, avoidance of unexpected disruptions in production, retention of key employees involved in implementing the restructuring plans and the ability of the company to sell or lease vacated facilities. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers and distributors purchase from the company. if the company independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations because of weakened retail sales and tightening credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. the company dealers may experience a further decline in retail sales resulting from general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors. the motorcycle industry has been affected by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors have caused a weaker retail environment leading to weaker demand for discretionary purchases, and the decision to purchase a motorcycle has been and may continue to be affected by these factors. the related tightening of credit has led to more limited availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand continue to decline, our results of operations and financial condition may be further substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. the company dealers may experience a further decline in retail sales resulting from declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supplies of new motorcycles. the company has observed that prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles have declined in recent years, which has had and may continue to have the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at manufacturer suggested retail prices). also, while the company has taken steps designed to reduce production of its new motorcycles in an effort to keep supply in line with demand, the company competitors could choose to supply additional new motorcycles to the market at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at manufacturer suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality, increase productivity, reduce costs and increase flexibility to respond to changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to implement this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement 14 table of contents efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company and its independent dealers must balance the economies of level production with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. the company generally records the sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company independent dealers and distributors. in the past few years, increased availability of harley-davidson motorcycles has resulted in the timing of retail purchases tracking more closely with regional motorcycle riding seasons. the seasonality of the company wholesale shipments affects its ability to continue to maintain relatively level production, inventories and shipments throughout the year. as a result, the company and its independent dealers and distributors must balance the economies of level production with the inventory and other costs associated with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. failure to balance the two, or any failure of the company to adequately adjust its methods of distributing motorcycles among its independent dealers and distributors, may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company cannot be certain that it will not experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company control such as the supply of a necessary raw material. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty due to financial market disruption in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit, and those suppliers who also serve the automotive industry may be experiencing financial difficulties due to a downturn in that industry, which could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. government actions to stabilize credit markets in 2009 are scheduled to end in 2010 which could have a negative impact on capital markets. in 2009, the u.s. government enacted legislation and created several programs to help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity, including the federal reserve commercial paper funding facility (cpff) and the federal reserve bank of new york term asset-backed securities loan facility (talf) program, both of which are scheduled to expire in 2010. the expiration of these programs could have a negative impact on capital markets and limit the company access to capital market funding. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing shareholders through the use of alternative sources of capital. the company financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company financial services business. the disruptions in the financial markets since 2008 have caused many lenders and institutional investors to reduce and, in some cases, cease to loan money to borrowers including financial institutions. the disruption has affected and could continue to affect the company choice of financing sources and its ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. the company financial services operations may be negatively affected by the difficulty in raising funding in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing shareholders through the use of alternative sources of capital. 15 table of contents the company financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company cost of borrowing will increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the company financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. the market turmoil since 2008 has resulted in the tightening of credit, a lack of consumer confidence, unemployment and increased market volatility, all of which have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies. the company financial services operations had higher retail receivables outstanding during 2009 as compared to 2008, due to a reduction in off-balance sheet term asset-backed securitization activity throughout 2008 and the utilization of on-balance sheet term asset-backed securitizations during 2009, and therefore retained increased on-balance sheet credit risk from retail receivables. further negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company financial services credit losses and future earnings. for example, the company financial services operations conduct business primarily in the united states and, as a result of recessionary conditions in the united states economy, delinquencies on receivables that the company financial services operations owns or services have increased. credit losses have increased as a result of a higher frequency of loss and higher average loss per harley-davidson branded motorcycle resulting from continued pressure on values for repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles. in addition, if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson-branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson-branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company has a number of competitors of varying sizes that are based both inside and outside the united states some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in the automotive market or all segments of the motorcycle market. also, the company manufacturer suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle market, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures worldwide and in the u.s. may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to both core customers and outreach customers such as women, young adults and ethnically diverse adults. the company success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its 16 table of contents business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to advance in terms of cutting edge styling and new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors products with unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property from imitators. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company new products. the company motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america that expire march 31, 2012, july 29, 2012 and february 2, 2017. these collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms as favorable to the company as past labor agreements. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company business and results of operations. the company operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including executive officers. the company future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and cash bonuses, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company existing employees. if the company does not succeed in attracting personnel or retaining and motivating existing personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, medical costs, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to our competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company products, the company may be 17 table of contents subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company must maintain its reputation of being a good corporate citizen and treating customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders fairly. the company has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act ), the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain this reputation may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. these are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. refer to the company disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company international sales operations may also be adversely affected by united states laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the united states and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. the company domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency ( epa ), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards 18 table of contents imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company products. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. the company financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. the u.s. congress is currently considering several proposals that would impose additional regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. for example, the u.s. house financial services committee has prepared a discussion draft of legislation that would impose additional oversight over the financial parent of an industrial loan company. this additional oversight may include regulation of hdfs and/or its subsidiaries by the federal reserve board in addition to its current regulators, the fdic and state banking authorities. failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect hdfs earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs business and results of operations. in addition, the company is also subject to policies and actions of the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. breaches of security involving consumers personal data may adversely affect the company reputation, revenue and earnings. the company receives and stores personal information in connection with its financial services operations, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. breach of the systems on which sensitive consumer information is stored or other unauthorized release of consumer information may adversely affect the company reputation and lead to claims against the company. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. the company uses derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates, commodity price and interest rate risks. also, these transactions may expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. as a result, the company earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar and the brazilian real. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of the euro and the australian dollar fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2009, the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro and australian dollar foreign currency contracts was $144.8 million. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $15.1 million as of december 31, 2009. further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. in addition, the company financed its acquisition of mv agusta and subsequent working capital requirements through 143.0 million of euro-denominated debt ($205.0 million at december 31, 2009). the carrying amount of debt is measured at each balance sheet date in the u.s. dollar and the corresponding gains or losses are recognized in the statement of operations. the company earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt and securitization transactions. hdfs also entered into derivative contracts to facilitate the april 2009 asset-backed conduit facility, certain of which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. additionally, to facilitate its first quarter 2008 securitization transaction as well as its third quarter 2007 securitization transaction, hdfs entered into derivative contracts. these derivatives, which hedge assets by an off-balance sheet qualifying special purpose entity, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in current period earnings within other operating expenses. as of december 31, 2009, hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $1.16 billion. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a $1.4 million decrease in the fair value of the agreements. 55 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. the company may not be able to successfully execute the long-term business strategy that the company announced on october 15, 2009. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through continuous improvement. 13 table of contents expanding international sales subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales is a part of the company long-term business strategy. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. the company must effectively execute the company restructuring plans within expected costs. during 2009 and 2010, the company announced a combination of restructuring actions that are designed to reduce administrative costs, eliminate excess capacity and exit non-core business operations. effectively executing these plans within expected costs and realizing expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the time required to complete planned actions, effective collaboration and agreement with the unions representing the company employees, the absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions, availability of and effective use of third party service providers to assist in implementing the actions, avoidance of unexpected disruptions in production, retention of key employees involved in implementing the restructuring plans and the ability of the company to dispose of vacated facilities in a cost effective manner. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers and distributors purchase from the company. if the company independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations because of weakened retail sales and tightening credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. the company dealers may experience a further decline in retail sales resulting from general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors. the motorcycle industry has been affected by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors have caused a weaker retail environment leading to weaker demand for discretionary purchases, and the decision to purchase a motorcycle has been and may continue to be affected by these factors. the related tightening of credit has led to more limited availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline further, the company results of operations and financial condition may be further substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. 14 table of contents retail sales of the company independent dealers may be adversely impacted by declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supplies of new motorcycles. the company has observed that when prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles have declined, it has had the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer suggested retail prices). also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, the company competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to implement this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company and its independent dealers must successfully adjust to a more seasonal retail sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company independent dealers and distributors. in the past several years, increased availability of new harley-davidson motorcycles has resulted in the timing of retail purchases from the company independent dealers tracking more closely with regional motorcycle riding seasons. as a result, the company and its independent dealers and distributors must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes to manage costs associated with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. failure to adjust through the implementation of a more flexible manufacturing process or through adjustments to its methods of distributing motorcycles among its independent dealers and distributors may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company cannot be certain that it will not experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company control such as the supply of a necessary raw material. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company financial services operations may be negatively affected by the difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available 15 table of contents through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing shareholders through the use of alternative sources of capital. the company financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company cost of borrowing will increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the company financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company financial services credit losses and future earnings. credit losses are adversely impacted by increases in the frequency of loss and by decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson-branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson-branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company has a number of competitors of varying sizes that are based both inside and outside the united states, some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in the automotive market or all segments of the motorcycle market. also, the company manufacturer suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle market, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures worldwide and in the u.s. may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to both core customers and outreach customers such as women, young adults and ethnically diverse adults. the company must also execute its multi-generational and multi-cultural strategy without adversely impacting the strength of the brand with core customers. the company success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues 16 table of contents to advance in terms of cutting edge styling and new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors products with unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property from imitators. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company new products. the company motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in wisconsin, pennsylvania and kansas city will expire in 2019, 2017 and 2012, respectively. new agreements were ratified in pennsylvania and wisconsin in december 2009 and september 2010, respectively. hourly production employees in missouri are expected to vote on the terms of a new collective bargaining agreement in march 2011 (with any agreement to be effective when the current agreement expires). collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company business and results of operations. the company operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including executive officers and other senior leaders. the company future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and cash bonuses, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company existing employees. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to our competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company products, the company may be 17 table of contents subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company must maintain its reputation of being a good corporate citizen and treating customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders fairly. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the act ), the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain this reputation may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. as new systems are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. these are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. refer to the company disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company international sales operations may also be adversely affected by united states laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the united states and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. the company domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency ( epa ), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. 18 table of contents the company motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company products. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. the company financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. the u.s. congress is currently considering several proposals that would impose additional regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the act ) was passed into law. the act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial services industry is still assessing the impacts. congress detailed some significant changes, but the act leaves many details to be determined by regulation and further study. the full impact will not be fully known for months or even years, as regulations that are intended to implement the act are adopted by the appropriate agencies, and the text of the act is analyzed by impacted stakeholders and possibly the courts. the act also created the bureau of consumer financial protection ( cfpb ), housed in the federal reserve. the cfpb has been granted significant rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet known. failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect hdfs earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs business and results of operations. in addition, the company is also subject to policies and actions of the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. breaches of security involving consumer or employee personal data may adversely affect the company reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party vendors receive and store personal information in connection with its human resources operations, financial services operations, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. breach of the systems on which sensitive consumer or employee information is stored or other unauthorized release of consumer information may adversely affect the company reputation and lead to claims against the company. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. the company uses derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates, commodity price and interest rate risks. also, these transactions may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. 19 table of contents the company operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . in particular, climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. there have been bills pending in congress that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, are considering various greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company supply chain. the company manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company business, operations or financial results. many of the company suppliers face similar circumstances. while additional regulation of emissions in the future appears likely, it is too early to predict how this regulation will ultimately affect the company business, operations or financial results. physical risks to the company business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. as a result, the company earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar and the japanese yen. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of the euro, the australian dollar and the japanese yen fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2010, the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar and japanese yen foreign currency contracts was $270.9 million. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $30.8 million as of december 31, 2010. further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the company earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt and securitization transactions. hdfs also entered into derivative contracts to facilitate its first quarter 2008 securitization. these derivatives, which hedge assets held by a vie, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized in current period earnings within other income. as of december 31, 2010, hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $173.2 million. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a $0.5 million decrease in the fair value of the agreements. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through continuous improvement. expanding international sales subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales is a part of the company long-term business strategy. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade 13 barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. the company must effectively execute the company restructuring plans within expected costs. during 2009, 2010 and 2011, the company announced a combination of restructuring actions that are designed to reduce administrative costs, eliminate excess capacity and exit non-core business operations. effectively executing these plans within expected costs and realizing expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the time required to complete planned actions and effective collaboration with the unions representing the company employees, the absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions, availability of and effective use of third party service providers to assist in implementing the actions, avoidance of unexpected disruptions in production, retention of key employees involved in implementing the restructuring plans and the ability of the company to dispose of vacated facilities in a cost effective manner. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers and distributors purchase from the company. if the company independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. changes in general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers retail sales. the motorcycle industry has been affected by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. retail sales of the company independent dealers may be adversely impacted by declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supplies of new motorcycles. the company has observed that when prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles have declined, it has had the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer suggested retail prices). also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, the company competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand 14 for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to implement this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. the company has several strategic projects in process, some of which the company will implement in 2012 and continuing over the next several years. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company and its independent dealers must successfully adjust to a more seasonal retail sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company independent dealers and distributors. in the past several years, increased availability of new harley-davidson motorcycles has resulted in the timing of retail purchases from the company independent dealers tracking more closely with regional motorcycle riding seasons. as a result, the company and its independent dealers and distributors must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes to manage costs associated with a more seasonal retail sales pattern. failure to adjust through the implementation of a more flexible manufacturing process or through adjustments to its methods of distributing motorcycles among its independent dealers and distributors may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company cannot be certain that it will not experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company financial services operations may 15 be negatively affected by the difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the company financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company cost of borrowing will increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the company financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company financial services credit losses and future earnings. credit losses are adversely impacted by increases in the frequency of loss and by decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of harley-davidson-branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson-branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company has a number of competitors, some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. also, the company manufacturer suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle market, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures worldwide and in the u.s. may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to both core customers and outreach customers such as women, young adults and ethnically diverse adults. the company must also execute its multi-generational and multi-cultural strategy without adversely impacting the strength of the brand with core customers. the company success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. 16 the company ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to advance in terms of cutting edge styling and new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors products with unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property from imitators. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company new products. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. the company uses derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates, commodity price and interest rate risks. also, these transactions may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including executive officers and other senior leaders. the company future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to our competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company products, the company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company must maintain its reputation of being a good corporate citizen and treating customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders fairly. the company believes it has a 17 history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain this reputation may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. these are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although we are unable to determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. refer to the company disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company international sales operations may also be adversely affected by united states laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the united states and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. the company domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency ( epa ), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company products. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. 18 the company financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. the u.s. congress is currently considering several proposals that would impose additional regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the act ) was passed into law. the dodd-frank act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial services industry is still assessing the impacts. congress detailed some significant changes, but the dodd-frank act leaves many details to be determined by regulation and further study. the full impact will not be fully known for months or even years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted by the appropriate agencies, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by impacted stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the bureau of consumer financial protection ( cfpb ), housed in the federal reserve. the cfpb has been granted significant rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet known. compliance with the law may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required to comply with the regulations. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect hdfs earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs business and results of operations. in addition, the company is also subject to policies and actions of the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. a cybersecurity breach involving digital consumer or employee personal data may adversely affect the company reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party vendors receive and store digital personal information in connection with its human resources operations, financial services operations, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. to the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against the company and ultimately harm our business. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. the company motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in pennsylvania, kansas city and wisconsin will expire in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company business and results of operations. 19 the company operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . in particular, climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. there have been bills pending in congress that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, are considering various greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company supply chain. the company manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company business, operations or financial results. many of the company suppliers face similar circumstances. while additional regulation of emissions in the future appears likely, it is too early to predict how this regulation will ultimately affect the company business, operations or financial results. physical risks to the company business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. the company must detect issues with the company motorcycles or manufacturing processes to avoid delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or litigation. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes to ensure high quality products are shipped to dealers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, product recalls, conventional warranty claims, and product liability or unconventional warranty claims, which may involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflect those in the financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates. further, shipping products with poor quality may also adversely affect the company reputation. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country local currency. as a result, the company earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar and the japanese yen. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of the euro, the australian dollar and the japanese yen fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2011, the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar and japanese yen foreign currency contracts was $306.4 million. the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $29.5 million as of december 31, 2011. further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the company earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt. as of december 31, 2011, hdfs had interest rate swaps outstanding with a notional value of $102.1 million. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a $0.2 million decrease in the fair value of the agreements. 55risk factors 11 risk factors an investment in harley-davidson, inc. involves risks, including those discussed below. these risk factors should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its long-term business strategy. there is no assurance that the company will be able to drive growth to the extent desired through its focus of efforts and resources on the harley-davidson brand or to enhance productivity and profitability to the extent desired through continuous improvement. expanding international sales subjects the company to risks that may have a material adverse effect on its business. expanding international sales is a part of the company's long-term business strategy. to support that strategy, the company must increase its presence outside the u.s., including additional employees and investment in business infrastructure and operations. international operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. the company may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international operations and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on the company's net sales, financial condition, profitability or cash flows. the company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its products. the company depends on the capability of its independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail sales plans to create demand among retail purchasers for the motorcycles and related products and services that the dealers and distributors purchase from the company. if the company's independent dealers and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the company will be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and meet its financial expectations. further, independent dealers and distributors may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their 11 obligations resulting from adverse business conditions such as weakened retail sales and tightened credit. if dealers are unsuccessful, they may exit or be forced to exit the business or, in some cases, the company may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealerships. as a result, the company could face additional adverse consequences related to the termination of dealer relationships. additionally, liquidating a former dealer's inventory of new and used motorcycles can add downward pressure on new and used motorcycle prices. further, the unplanned loss of any of the company's independent dealers may lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of new motorcycles and for servicing previously sold motorcycles, create negative impressions of the company with its retail customers, and adversely impact the company's ability to collect wholesale receivables that are associated with that dealer. changes in general economic conditions, tightening of credit, political events or other factors may adversely impact dealers' retail sales. the motorcycle industry is impacted by general economic conditions over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. these factors can weaken the retail environment and lead to weaker demand for discretionary purchases such as motorcycles. tightening of credit can limit the availability of funds from financial institutions and other lenders and sources of capital which could adversely affect the ability of retail consumers to obtain loans for the purchase of motorcycles from lenders, including hdfs. should general economic conditions or motorcycle industry demand decline, the company's results of operations and financial condition may be substantially adversely affected. the motorcycle industry can also be affected by political conditions and other factors over which motorcycle manufacturers have little control. retail sales of the company's independent dealers may be adversely impacted by declining prices for used motorcycles and excess supplies of new motorcycles. the company has observed that when prices for used harley-davidson motorcycles have declined, it has had the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). also, while the company has taken steps designed to balance production volumes for its new motorcycles with demand, the company's competitors could choose to supply new motorcycles to the market in excess of demand at reduced prices which could also have the effect of reducing demand for new harley-davidson motorcycles (at or near manufacturer's suggested retail prices). ultimately, reduced demand among retail purchasers for new harley-davidson motorcycles leads to reduced shipments by the company. the company may not be able to successfully execute its manufacturing strategy. the company's manufacturing strategy is designed to continuously improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. the company believes flexible manufacturing, including flexible supply chains and flexible labor agreements, is the key element to enable improvements in the company's ability to respond to customers in a cost effective manner. to implement this strategy, the company must be successful in its continuous improvement efforts which are dependent on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of the company's products and its ability to deliver the right product at the right time to the customer. the company's ability to remain competitive is dependent upon its capability to develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products. the motorcycle market continues to change in terms of styling preferences and advances in new technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related to safety and emissions. the company must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors' products with unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property from imitators. in addition, these new products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide and satisfy the potential demand for products that produce lower emissions and achieve better fuel economy. the company must make product advancements while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with harley-davidson products. the company must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to the marketplace in an efficient and timely manner. there can be no assurances that the company will be successful in these endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the company's new products. the company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and technology. the company is continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. the company has several strategic projects in process. as new systems and technologies (and related strategies) are implemented, the company could experience unanticipated difficulties resulting in unexpected costs and adverse impacts to its manufacturing and other business processes. when implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 12 the company and its independent dealers must successfully adjust to a more seasonal retail motorcycle sales pattern. the company records the wholesale sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the company's independent dealers and distributors. the company began flexible production at its york, pennsylvania facility in the first half of 2013, which the company expects will shift some motorcycle production to the first half of 2013 that did not occur in the fourth quarter of 2012, to, among other things, address the seasonal retail sales cycle. any difficulties in implementing flexible production could result in lost production or sales. the company and its independent dealers and distributors must be able to successfully manage changes in production rates, inventory levels and other business processes associated with flexible production. failure by the company and its independent dealers to make such adjustments may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide component parts for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles. the company may experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of raw materials and components. in certain circumstances, the company relies on a single supplier to provide the entire requirement of a specific part, and a change in this established supply relationship may cause disruption in the company's production schedule. in addition, the price and availability of raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of the company's control such as the supply of a necessary raw material or natural disasters. further, company suppliers may experience difficulty in funding their day-to-day cash flow needs because of tightening credit caused by financial market disruption. in addition, adverse economic conditions and related pressure on select suppliers due to difficulties in the global manufacturing arena could adversely affect their ability to supply the company. these supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company relies on third party outsourcing companies to perform certain operating and administrative functions. the company has outsourced a number of operations to third parties in an effort to focus on competencies that provide the company a competitive advantage. similar to suppliers of raw materials and components, the company may experience problems with outsourced services, such as unfavorable pricing, untimely delivery of services, or poor quality. also, outsourcing companies may experience adverse economic conditions due to difficulties in the global economy that could lead to difficulties supporting the company's operations. these service provider risks may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's financial services operations rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of its operations. liquidity is essential to the company's financial services business. disruptions in financial markets may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to loan money to borrowers, including financial institutions. the company's financial services operations may be negatively affected by the difficulty in raising capital in the long-term and short-term capital markets. these negative consequences may in turn adversely affect the company's business and results of operations in various ways, including through higher costs of capital, reduced funds available through its financial services operations to provide loans to independent dealers and their retail customers, and dilution to existing share value through the use of alternative sources of capital. the company's financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing capital markets to fund their operations at competitive interest rates, the company's access to capital and its cost of capital are highly dependent upon its credit ratings, and any negative credit rating actions will adversely affect its earnings and results of operations. the ability of the company and its financial services operations to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by their short-term and long-term credit ratings. if the company's credit ratings are downgraded or its ratings outlook is negatively changed, the company's cost of borrowing will increase, resulting in reduced earnings and interest margins, or the company's access to capital may be disrupted or impaired. the company's financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail and wholesale receivables. credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the company's financial services operations. credit losses are influenced by general business and economic conditions, including unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings and other factors that negatively affect household incomes, as well as contract terms, customer credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market. negative changes in general business, economic or market factors may have an additional adverse impact on the company's financial services credit losses and future earnings. while hdfs experienced historically low levels of retail credit losses during 2012, the company believes hdfs' retail credit losses may increase over time due to changing consumer credit behavior and hdfs' efforts to increase prudently structured loan approvals in the near-prime and sub-prime lending environment. credit losses are also adversely impacted by increases in the frequency of loss and by decreases in the value of repossessed harley-davidson branded motorcycles. if there are adverse circumstances that involve a material decline in values of 13 harley-davidson branded motorcycles, those circumstances or any related decline in resale values for harley-davidson-branded motorcycles could contribute to increased delinquencies and credit losses. the company must effectively execute the company's restructuring plans within expected costs. during 2009, 2010 and 2011, the company announced a combination of restructuring actions that are designed to reduce administrative costs, eliminate excess capacity and exit non-core business operations. effectively executing these plans within expected costs and realizing expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the time required to complete planned actions and effective collaboration with the unions representing the company's employees, the absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions, availability of and effective use of third party service providers to assist in implementing the actions, avoidance of unexpected disruptions in production, retention of key employees involved in implementing the restructuring plans and the ability of the company to dispose of vacated facilities in a cost effective manner. the company has a number of competitors, some of which have greater financial resources than the company. many of the company's competitors are more diversified than the company, and they may compete in all segments of the motorcycle market, other powersports markets and/or the automotive market. also, the company's manufacturer's suggested retail price for its motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle market, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, the company's financial services operations face competition from various banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions that may have access to additional sources of capital at more competitive rates and terms, particularly for borrowers in higher credit tiers. failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures worldwide and in the u.s. may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's marketing strategy of appealing to and growing sales to multi-generational and multi-cultural customers worldwide may not continue to be successful. the company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by promoting the experience of motorcycling. to sustain and grow the business over the long-term, the company must continue to be successful selling products and promoting the experience of motorcycling to both core customers and outreach customers such as women, young adults and ethnically diverse adults. the company must also execute its multi-generational and multi-cultural strategy without adversely impacting the strength of the brand with core customers. the company's success depends upon the continued strength of the harley-davidson brand. the company believes that the harley-davidson brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer base. failure to protect the brand from infringers or to grow the value of the harley-davidson brand may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. shifting foreign exchange rates can adversely affect the company's revenue and margin, and cause volatility in results of operations. the company is also subject to risks associated with changes in prices of commodities. earnings from the company's financial services business are affected by changes in interest rates. although the company uses derivative financial instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates, commodity price and interest rate risks, these instruments generally do not extend beyond one year and may expose the company to credit risk in the event of counterparty default to the derivative financial instruments. there can be no assurance that in the future the company will successfully manage these risks. the company's operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled employees, including executive officers and other senior leaders. the company's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, retain and promote skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. the company's current and future total compensation arrangements, which include benefits and incentive awards, may not be successful in attracting new employees and retaining and motivating the company's existing employees. in addition, the company must cultivate and sustain a work environment where employees are engaged and energized in their jobs to maximize their performance. if the company does not succeed in attracting new personnel, retaining existing personnel, implementing effective succession plans and motivating and engaging personnel, including executive officers, the company may be unable to develop and distribute products and services and effectively execute its plans and strategies. 14 the company incurs substantial costs with respect to employee pension and healthcare benefits. the company's cash funding requirements and its estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and healthcare benefits for both active and retired employees are based on several factors that are outside the company's control. these factors include funding requirements of the pension protection act of 2006, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on plan assets, current and projected healthcare costs, healthcare reform or legislation, retirement age and mortality. changes in these factors can impact the expense, liabilities and cash requirements associated with these benefits which could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or shareholders' equity. in addition, costs associated with these benefits put the company under significant cost pressure as compared to its competitors that may not bear the costs of similar benefit plans. furthermore, costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act may produce additional cost pressure on the company and its health care plans. the company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. to the extent plaintiffs are successful in showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the design or manufacture of the company's products, the company may be subject to claims for damages that are not covered by insurance. the costs associated with defending product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company must maintain stakeholder confidence in its operating ethics and corporate governance practices. the company believes it has a history of good corporate governance. prior to the enactment of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the company had in place many of the corporate governance procedures and processes now mandated by the sarbanes-oxley act and related rules and regulations, such as board committee charters and a corporate governance policy. in 1992, the company established a code of business conduct that defines how employees interact with various company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of interest and fair dealing. failure to maintain its reputation for good corporate governance may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. these are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business. the uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the company's business, financial condition, reputation and brand. the defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. in addition, although the company is unable to determine the amount, if any, that it may be required to pay in connection with the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. refer to the company's disclosures concerning legal proceedings in the periodic reports that the company files with the securities and exchange commission for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the company. the company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to change and involve significant costs. the company's sales and operations in areas outside the u.s. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal systems of foreign courts or tribunals. these laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the company to sell its products in certain countries. the company's international sales operations may also be adversely affected by u. s. laws affecting foreign trade and taxation. the company is subject to income and non-income based taxes in the u.s. and in various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities. the company believes that it complies with applicable tax law. if the governing tax authorities have a different interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, the company's financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected. the company's domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies and regulatory actions of agencies of the united states government, including the environmental protection agency ( epa ), sec, national highway traffic safety administration, department of labor and federal trade commission. in addition, the company's sales and operations are also subject to laws and actions of state legislatures and other local regulators, including dealer statutes and licensing laws. changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. 15 the company's motorcycle products use internal combustion engines. these motorcycle products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the epa, state regulatory agencies, such as california air resources board, and regulatory agencies in certain foreign countries where the company's motorcycle products are sold. the company is also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise in the conduct of the company's manufacturing operations. any significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing the company's products. if the company fails to meet existing or new requirements, then the company may be unable to sell certain products or may be subject to fines or penalties. further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, the company may face greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less emissions. this may require the company to spend additional funds on research, product development, and implementation costs and subject the company to the risk that the company's competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a competitive advantage. the company's financial services operations are governed by various foreign, federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and lending institutions. the financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans through its subsidiary, eaglemark savings bank, a nevada state thrift chartered as an industrial loan company. congress has previously considered and may in the future impose additional regulation and supervision over the financial services industry. depending on the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations, the interpretation of laws and regulations and the specific facts and circumstances involved, violations of or non-compliance with these laws may limit the ability of hdfs to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans, may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or obtain a refund of amounts previously paid, could subject hdfs to payment of damages or penalties and administrative sanctions, including "cease and desist" orders, and could limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitizations programs. such regulatory requirements and associated supervision could limit the discretion of hdfs in operating its business. noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any charter, license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines, criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. the company cannot assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted or that interest rates charged by hdfs will not rise to maximum levels permitted by law, the effect of any of which could be to adversely affect the business of hdfs or its results of operations. in 2010, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act was passed into law. the dodd-frank act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial services industry is still assessing the impacts. congress detailed some significant changes, but the dodd-frank act leaves many details to be determined by regulation and further study. the full impact will not be fully known for months or even years, as regulations that are intended to implement the dodd-frank act are adopted by the appropriate agencies, and the text of the dodd-frank act is analyzed by impacted stakeholders and possibly the courts. the dodd-frank act also created the bureau of consumer financial protection ( cfpb ), housed in the federal reserve. the cfpb has been granted significant enforcement and rule-making authority in the area of consumer financial products and services. the direction that the cfpb will take, the regulations it will adopt, and its interpretation of existing laws and regulations are all elements that are not yet known. compliance with the law may be costly and could affect operating results as the implementation of new forms, processes, procedures and controls and infrastructure may be required to comply with the regulations. compliance may create operational constraints and place limits on pricing. failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect hdfs' earnings, limit its access to capital, limit the number of loans eligible for hdfs securitization programs and have a material adverse effect on hdfs' business and results of operations. in addition, the company is also subject to policies and actions of the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). many major competitors of the company are not subject to the requirements of the sec or the nyse rules. as a result, the company may be required to disclose certain information that may put the company at a competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors. a cybersecurity breach involving digital consumer or employee personal data may adversely affect the company's reputation, revenue and earnings. the company and certain of its third-party vendors receive and store digital personal information in connection with its human resources operations, financial services operations, the harley owners group and other aspects of its business. any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to the company's operations. to the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to the company's data, or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant 16 damage to the company's reputation, affect its relationships with customers, lead to claims against the company and ultimately harm the company's business. in addition, the company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. the company's motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor . substantially all of the hourly production employees working in the motorcycles segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. harley-davidson motor company is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local affiliates of the international association of machinists and aerospace workers and the united steelworkers of america. current collective bargaining agreements with hourly employees in pennsylvania, missouri and wisconsin will expire in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. collective bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. there is no certainty that the company will be successful in negotiating new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow the company to be competitive. failure to renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the company and the unions could result in the relocation of production facilities, work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and the company's business and results of operations. the company's operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations . climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, several states, including states where the company has manufacturing plants, have previously considered and may in the future implement greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. energy security and availability and its related costs affect all aspects of the company's manufacturing operations in the united states, including the company's supply chain. the company's manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of the company's plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity the company purchases, increase costs for use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require the company to purchase allowances to offset the company's own emissions or result in an overall increase in costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase the company's costs, reduce competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect the company's business, operations or financial results. many of the company's suppliers face similar circumstances. physical risks to the company's business operations as identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other expert bodies include scenarios such as sea level rise, extreme weather conditions and resource shortages. extreme weather may disrupt the production and supply of component parts or other items such as natural gas, a fuel necessary for the manufacture of motorcycles and their components. supply disruptions would raise market rates and jeopardize the continuity of motorcycle production. new regulations related to conflict minerals may force the company to incur additional expenses. the sec recently adopted additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo and surrounding countries, or "conflict minerals", that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. the minerals that the final rules cover are commonly referred to as "3tg" and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. implementation of the new disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals that the company uses in the manufacture of its products. the company's supply chain is complex, and if it is not able to conclusively verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in its products or that its products are "conflict free", then the company may face reputational challenges with customers or investors. additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering "conflict free" minerals, the company cannot be sure that it will be able to obtain necessary metals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. accordingly, the company could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements. the company must detect issues with the company's motorcycles or manufacturing processes to avoid recall campaigns, increased warranty costs or litigation, and delays in new model launches. the company must also complete any recall campaigns within cost expectations. the company must continually improve and adhere to product development and manufacturing processes to ensure high quality products are shipped to dealers. if product designs or manufacturing processes are defective, the company could experience delays in new model launches, product recalls, conventional warranty claims, and product liability or unconventional warranty claims, which may 17 involve purported class actions. while the company uses reasonable methods to estimate the cost of warranty, recall and product liability costs and appropriately reflect those in the financial statements, there is a risk the actual costs could exceed estimates. further, shipping products with poor quality may also adversely affect the company's reputation. the company disclaims any obligation to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements. the company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these risk factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. to reduce such risks, the company selectively uses derivative financial instruments. all hedging transactions are authorized and executed pursuant to regularly reviewed policies and procedures, which prohibit the use of financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. sensitivity analysis is used to manage and monitor foreign exchange and interest rate risk. the company sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in the foreign country's local currency. as a result, the company's earnings can be affected by fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currency. the company's most significant foreign currency risk relates to the euro, the australian dollar,the japanese yen and 47 the brazilian real. the company utilizes foreign currency contracts to mitigate the effect of the euro, the australian dollar and the japanese yen fluctuations on earnings. the foreign currency contracts are entered into with banks and allow the company to exchange a specified amount of foreign currency for u.s. dollars at a future date, based on a fixed exchange rate. at december 31, 2012 , the notional u.s. dollar value of outstanding euro, australian dollar and japanese yen foreign currency contracts was $345.0 million . the company estimates that a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the currencies underlying these contracts would result in a decrease in the fair value of the contracts of approximately $35.2 million as of december 31, 2012 . further disclosure relating to the fair value of derivative financial instruments is included in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the company's earnings are affected by changes in interest rates. hdfs utilizes interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on its debt. as of december 31, 2012 , hdfs had an interest rate swap outstanding with a notional value of $35.8 million. hdfs estimates that a 10% decrease in interest rates would result in a $20 thousand decrease in the fair value of the agreement. 48