risk factors 22 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2012 were $51.2 billion, a decrease of 11% compared to 2011, primarily due to the decrease of $7.6 billion in operational revenues from lipitor , geodon , xalatan , caduet , aromasin and detrol , and lower alliance revenues for aricept , all due to the loss of exclusivity in certain markets, and from lower alliance revenues for spiriva due to the final-year terms of our collaboration agreements in certain european countries, canada and australia; lower revenues for effexor and zosyn/tazocin ; and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.3 billion, or 2%. this decrease was partially offset by an increase in operational revenues in developed markets for certain biopharmaceutical products, particularly lyrica , celebrex , and enbrel , and in revenues from emerging markets. geographically, in the u.s., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 17% in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily reflecting lower revenues from lipitor , geodon , caduet , xalatan and aromasin , all due to the loss of exclusivity; lower alliance revenues due to loss of exclusivity of aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in november 2010; and lower revenues from effexor , zosyn and detrol/detrol la . the impact of these adverse factors was partially offset by the strong performance of certain other biopharmaceutical products, lower reductions related to rebates and the lower reduction in revenues related to the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (commonly referred to as the affordable care act, or aca). for additional information regarding the impact of the aca on our revenues, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment u.s. healthcare legislation section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. in our international markets, revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 7% in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity of lipitor in most of developed europe and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%. operationally, revenues decreased 4% in 2012 compared to 2011. in addition to lipitor , the decrease in operational revenues was driven by xalatan/xalacom , aricept and aromasin , all due to the loss of exclusivity in certain markets, as well as lower alliance revenues, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity of aricept in many major european markets and lower revenues for spiriva in certain european countries, canada and australia (reflecting the final-year terms of our spiriva collaboration agreements relating to those countries), as well as lower revenues for norvasc and effexor . the impact of these adverse factors was partially offset by the strong operational growth of lyrica , prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and enbrel . during 2012, international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented 62% of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to 59% in 2011. 4 for additional information, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical revenues section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. other products animal health our animal health operating segment is a market leader in nearly all of the major regions in which it operates. it discovers, develops, manufactures and commercializes animal health medicines and vaccines, with a focus on both livestock and companion animals. on february 6, 2013, an ipo of our subsidiary zoetis was completed, pursuant to which we sold 99.015 million shares of zoetis in exchange for the retirement of approximately $2.5 billion of pfizer commercial paper issued on january 10, 2013. the ipo represented approximately 19.8% of the total outstanding zoetis shares. on february 1, 2013, zoetis shares began trading on the new york stock exchange under the symbol zts. prior to and in connection with the ipo, zoetis completed a $3.65 billion senior notes offering and we transferred to zoetis substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our animal health business. for additional details see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 19a. subsequent events: zoetis debt offering and initial public offering in our 2012 financial report. we will continue to consolidate zoetis as we have retained control over the entity, and we will reflect amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests for the divested portion. the net assets, operations and cash flows that comprise zoetis are not the same as those of the animal health operating segment. revenues from animal health products were approximately $4.3 billion in 2012, an increase of 3% compared to 2011, reflecting higher operational revenues of 6%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%. operational revenues from animal health products were favorably impacted by the solid performance in both the livestock and companion animal portfolios. major categories and product lines in the animal health business include: anti-infectives: products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa. examples of products in this category include draxxin , terramycin , clavamox / synulox , and the ceftiofur line; vaccines: biological preparations that prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response. examples of products in this category include the bovishield line, improvac , and vanguard ; parasiticides: products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites, such as fleas, ticks and worms. examples of products in this category include cydectin , dectomax , and revolution ; medicinal feed additives: products that provide medicines, nutrients and probiotics to livestock; and other pharmaceutical products and other non-pharmaceutical products: complementary products, such as pain and sedation, oncology and antiemetic products. examples of products in this category include palladia and rimadyl . consumer healthcare based on 2012 revenues, our consumer healthcare operating segment is the fifth-largest branded multi-national, over-the-counter (otc), healthcare products business in the world and sells two of the ten largest selling otc healthcare brands ( centrum and advil ) in the world. consumer healthcare revenues totaled $3.2 billion for 2012, an increase of 6% compared to 2011, reflecting higher operational revenues of 8%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%. the operational revenue increase was primarily due to the addition of products from the acquisitions of the consumer healthcare business of ferrosan holding a/s (ferrosan) in december 2011 and alacer corp. (alacer) in february 2012, discussed below. the consumer healthcare operating segment holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the u.s., canada, china, germany, italy, brazil and australia. major categories and product lines in our consumer healthcare business include: dietary supplements: centrum brands (including centrum , centrum silver , centrum men's and women's , centrum specialist , centrum flavor burst , and centrum kids ), caltrate , and emergen-c ; 5 pain management: advil brands (including advil , advil pm , advil liqui-gels , children's advil , infants' advil , and advil migraine) , and thermacare ; respiratory: robitussin , advil cold &amp; sinus , advil congestion relief , and dimetapp ; and personal care: chapstick and preparation h. on august 13, 2012, we announced that we entered into an agreement with astrazeneca for the global otc rights for nexium , a leading prescription drug currently approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. under the terms of the agreement, we acquired the exclusive global rights to market nexium for otc indications, which are subject to regulatory approval. in february 2012, we completed our acquisition of alacer, a company that manufactures, markets and distributes emergen-c , a line of effervescent, powdered drink mix vitamin supplements that is the largest-selling branded vitamin c line in the u.s. in december 2011, we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of ferrosan, a danish company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the nordic region and the emerging markets of russia and central and eastern europe. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2a. acquisitions, divestitures, collaborative arrangements and equity-method investments: acquisitions in our 2012 financial report and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. for additional information regarding the revenues of our animal health and consumer healthcare operating segments, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income other product revenues section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. nutrition on november 30, 2012, we completed the sale of our nutrition business to nestl for $11.85 billion in cash. pfizer nutrition was a business that sold infant nutritionals, including infant milk formula brands for newborns and toddlers, in certain markets outside the u.s. and canada. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2b. acquisitions, divestitures, collaborative arrangements and equity-method investments: divestitures in our 2012 financial report. research and development innovation by our research and development (r&amp;d) operations is very important to our success. as a result, and also because we are predominantly a human health company, the vast majority of our research and development spending is associated with human health products, compounds and activities. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. we spent $7.9 billion in 2012, $9.1 billion in 2011 and $9.5 billion in 2010 on research and development. biopharmaceutical r&amp;d we conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. we also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements, acquisitions and other arrangements. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. according to the pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of america (phrma), out of 5,000-10,000 screened compounds, only 250 enter preclinical testing, five enter human clinical trials and one is approved by the fda. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than 10 years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research. as of year-end 2012, we had 276 projects in research and development, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 78 programs are in phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. at year-end 2012, our phase 3 portfolio contained 17 programs. development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple different programs. while these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. 6 in addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses or indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. see item 1a. risk factors competitive products below. we continue to closely evaluate our global research and development function and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d by prioritizing areas that we believe have the greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles, and focusing on areas that we believe have the highest potential to deliver value in the near term and over time. to that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small and large molecules immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. in addition to reducing the number of disease areas of focus, we have realigned and reduced our research and development footprint, and outsourced certain functions that do not drive competitive advantage for pfizer. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. for additional information regarding our r&amp;d operations, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income research and development section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. international operations we have significant operations outside the united states. for the developed markets, these operations for human pharmaceutical products are managed through the same business units as our u.s. operations (i.e., primary care, specialty care, oncology and established products). our operations in emerging markets for human pharmaceutical products are managed through the emerging markets business unit within the established products and emerging markets segment. our animal health and consumer healthcare operating segments manage their operations worldwide. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $35.9 billion accounted for 61% of our total revenues in 2012. revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 16 countries outside the u.s. in 2012 and 2011, and in each of 17 countries outside the u.s. in 2010. the u.s. is our largest national market, comprising 39% of total revenues in 2012, 41% of total revenues in 2011 and 44% of total revenues in 2010. japan is our second-largest national market, with 10% of total revenues in 2012, 9% of total revenues in 2011 and 8% of total revenues in 2010. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2012 financial report, and the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. these include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see item 1a. risk factors risks affecting international operations below. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints below for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. in 2012, both revenues and net income were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange in general, as foreign currency movements relative to the u.s. dollar decreased our revenues and net income in many countries. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2012 financial report, as well as the 7 forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. those sections of our 2012 financial report are incorporated by reference. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, pharmacy benefit managers (pbms), managed care organizations (mcos), employers and government agencies. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our biopharmaceutical businesses include five human health, customer-focused business units: primary care, specialty care (including vaccines), oncology, established products and emerging markets. we operate in customer-focused business units within our biopharmaceutical businesses to better meet the diverse needs of physicians, patients and our customers while seeking to maximize value for our company and our shareholders. our u.s. primary care operations are structured into regional units in order to create a more flexible organization to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. our structure is designed to align the sales, marketing, and medical functions to work closely to meet the needs of key customer groups while seeking to ensure common coordination, focus and accountability across the organizations. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and in the case of prevnar 13 , directly to individual provider offices in the u.s. we seek to gain access to healthcare authority, pbm and mco formularies. formularies are lists of approved medicines available to members that are tiered according to co-pay amounts and reimbursed by the respective pbm or mco. we also work with mcos, pbms, employers and other healthcare providers to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. during 2012, pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows: mckesson, inc. 12% of our total revenues (and 28% of our total u.s. revenues); cardinal health, inc. 9% of our total revenues (and 23% of our total u.s. revenues); and amerisourcebergen corporation 7% of our total revenues (and 17% of our total u.s. revenues). sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses. in addition, our consumer healthcare operating segment generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on the consumer healthcare operating segment. each of our global animal health and consumer healthcare operating segments utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and each occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets. our animal health operating segment's advertising and promotions are generally targeted to veterinary healthcare professionals, livestock producers and pet owners. animal health products are sold directly to veterinarians and livestock producers, as well as through distributors and retail outlets. our consumer healthcare operating segment's advertising and promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. patents and intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. 8 we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the u.s. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below. the basic patents for these products in other large markets may expire in the same, earlier or later years. drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year (1)(2)(3) detrol 2012 (2) viagra 2012 (3) celebrex 2014 zyvox 2015 lyrica 2018 bosulif 2019 chantix 2020 inlyta 2020 xeljanz 2020 sutent 2021 eliquis 2023 xalkori 2029 (1) with respect to the products in this table, the corresponding european and japanese patent expiration dates are generally within one year before or after the u.s. dates indicated, except as follows: with respect to japan, the patent expiration year for celebrex is 2019, for zyvox is 2019, for lyrica is 2022, for champix is 2022, and for sutent is 2024. for detrol , post-marketing surveillance in japan extends until 2014. with respect to major european markets, the patent expiration year for xalkori is 2025. for lyrica , regulatory exclusivity in europe extends until 2014. (2) as a result of certain patent litigation settlements, we expect generic competition for detrol la to commence in the u.s. no earlier than january 1, 2014, except in limited circumstances, and no later than march 1, 2014. (3) in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. for example, in addition to the basic product patent covering viagra , it is also covered by a u.s. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with revatio which has the same active ingredient as viagra , expires in 2020. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent. we co-promote aricept with eisai co., ltd. (eisai). we lost exclusivity for aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in the u.s. in november 2010, and in the majority of european markets in february 2012 and april 2012. we expect to lose exclusivity for the aricept 23mg tablet in the u.s. in july 2013. for additional information, including a description of certain of our other co- 9 promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights sections of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. we lost exclusivity for lipitor in the u.s. in november 2011. lipitor lost exclusivity in japan in june 2011, australia in april 2012 and most of developed europe in march 2012 and may 2012. in the u.s., europe, japan and australia, lipitor now faces multi-source generic competition. in other international markets, lipitor has lost exclusivity in certain countries and will lose exclusivity at various times in other countries. we lost exclusivity for xalatan in the u.s. in march 2011. we lost exclusivity for xalatan and xalacom in the majority of european markets in january 2012. we lost exclusivity for geodon in the u.s. in march 2012. we lost exclusivity in the u.s. in september 2012 for revatio tablet, and in june 2012 for detrol immediate release ( detrol ir ). we lost exclusivity for detrol in most european markets in september 2012. aromasin , effexor/effexor xr (extended-release formulation of effexor ), zosyn , protonix , norvasc and vfend tablets are examples of other pfizer products that face generic competition in the u.s. we also lost exclusivity for caduet in the u.s. in november 2011, and in the majority of european markets in march and may 2012. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products, viagra , lyrica , sutent , rapamune , epipen , torisel , pristiq , and embeda extended-release capsules . the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. biotechnology products our biotechnology products, including benefix , refacto , xyntha, enbrel and the prevnar/prevenar family, may face competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics ). such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin, which was approved under the u.s. federal food, drug and cosmetic act. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. the regulatory implementation of these aca provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. however, the fda has begun to clarify its expectations for approval via the biosimilar pathway with the issuance of three draft guidance documents in february 2012. see government regulation and price constraints biosimilars for additional information on the aca's approval framework for biosimilars. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years, and in japan the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in our genotropin product), pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. however, unlike small molecule generics, biologics currently have additional barriers to entry related to the manufacture of such products, and biosimilars are not necessarily identical to the reference products. therefore, generic competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant. as part of our business strategy, we are developing biosimilar medicines using our expertise in biologics and our regulatory, commercial and manufacturing strengths. as such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the u.s. see item 1a. risk factors biotechnology products below. 10 we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2016 for least-developed countries. a number of countries have made improvements. we have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those countries. we include further patent protection improvement among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our human prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. we also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons' efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. while our animal health operating segment is a market leader in nearly all of the major regions and sectors in which it operates, it faces competition from other animal health businesses, including those that are business units of other large pharmaceutical companies. the principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category or individual product, and may include new product development, quality, price, service and effective promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our consumer healthcare operating segment faces competition from otc business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including, among others, the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors' promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors' introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to otc switches). 11 managed care organizations the growth of mcos in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 260 million people in the u.s. now participate in some form of managed care. because of the size of the patient population covered by mcos, the marketing of prescription drugs to them and the pbms that serve many of those organizations continues to grow in importance. mcos can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations (e.g., staff or group model health maintenance organizations). the purchasing power of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing numbers of patients enrolled in mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their purchasing strength and importance to us. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. also, mcos use their purchasing power and their ability to influence market share and volume of prescription drugs to negotiate for lower supplier prices. they also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. as discussed above under marketing , mcos and pbms typically develop formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members that are tiered according to co-pay amounts and reimbursed by the respective pbm or mco. formularies typically are based on the prices and therapeutic benefits, or a combination of the two, of the available products. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. mcos use a variety of means to encourage patients' use of products listed on their formularies. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. the impact that mcos have on drug prices and volumes has increased as a result of their role in negotiating on behalf of medicare beneficiaries in connection with the medicare outpatient prescription drug benefit, medicare part d, which took effect january 1, 2006. mcos and pbms negotiate directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of the federal government for product access on medicare prescription drug plans' (pdps) formularies. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of the medicare pdps. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. unlike us, generic competitors often operate without large research and development expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. this means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, 12 including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. the substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. in the u.s., pfizer's greenstone subsidiary and pfizer injectables sell generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. no serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2012, and none are expected in 2013. however, select materials have, from time to time, increased in price due to short-term imbalances between supply and demand. we have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements in these circumstances, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid. government regulation and price constraints in the united states general. pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. of particular importance in the u.s. is the fda, which has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. the fda also regulates our consumer healthcare and animal health products. other federal agencies, including the u.s. department of agriculture and the u.s. drug enforcement administration, also regulate some of our products. in addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the department of health and human services (hhs) office of the inspector general, the federal trade commission (ftc) (which also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including otc drugs and dietary supplements), the department of justice (doj) and the sec. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. we are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various governmental bodies. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2012 financial report. such actions may involve product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. healthcare reform. in march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. the provisions of the aca are effective on various dates. the principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry include: an increase, from 15.1% to 23.1%, in the minimum rebate on branded prescription drugs sold to medicaid beneficiaries (effective january 1, 2010); extension of medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain medicaid managed care organizations (effective march 23, 2010); expansion of the types of institutions eligible for the section 340b discounts for outpatient drugs provided to hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low-income individuals and meeting the qualification criteria under section 340b of the public health service act of 1944 (effective january 1, 2010); discounts on branded prescription drug sales to medicare part d participants who are in the medicare coverage gap, also known as the doughnut hole (effective january 1, 2011); and a fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective january 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018). as of february 2013, the congressional budget office estimates that the aca will result in the coverage of 27 million previously uninsured individuals by 2017. approximately half of this would occur through an expansion of the medicaid program. effective in 2014, individuals with incomes below 133% of the federal poverty level (fpl) would be eligible for medicaid. the remainder would be covered with private sector coverage, either through their employers or new state-based health insurance exchanges (health insurance exchanges). with limited exceptions, individuals who fail to purchase health 13 insurance will pay a penalty, which is an obligation commonly referred to as the individual mandate. individuals with incomes between 100%-400% of the fpl will be eligible for subsidies to help pay for coverage. the u.s. supreme court reached a decision in june 2012 that upheld all provisions of the aca with the exception of the medicaid expansion. now, states can choose not to expand their medicaid populations without losing federal funding for their existing medicaid populations. the congressional budget office estimates that the new state flexibility is likely to result in six million fewer new medicaid enrollees than were initially expected to enroll as a result of the eligibility expansion and that half of these people are expected to gain coverage through health insurance exchanges, and the remaining three million are likely to remain uninsured. the aca specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the health insurance exchanges. the general categories of benefits and services that must be covered include: ambulatory patient services; emergency services; hospitalization; maternity and newborn care; mental health and substance use disorder services, including behavioral health treatment; prescription drugs; rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices; laboratory services; preventive and wellness services and chronic disease management; and pediatric services including oral and vision care. regulators have provided additional guidance to states on the types of benefits and services that must be covered. expanding insurance coverage and other costs are expected to result in a relatively modest gain in overall pharmaceutical industry sales, as the newly insured are principally young and relatively healthy. at the same time, the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs associated with the aca are a significant cost to the industry. the aca created the independent payment advisory board (ipab), a 15-member panel appointed by the president, subject to senate confirmation. the ipab is charged with developing proposals to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending in the event that the actual medicare per capita growth rate exceeds a specified target. unless congress acts to alter the proposals, the proposals will be automatically implemented. however, the ipab cannot directly ration care, raise premiums, increase cost sharing, or otherwise restrict benefits or modify eligibility. if the ipab fails to act, the secretary of hhs is directed to prepare such proposals. the ipab is prohibited by statute from making payment reductions to certain sectors such as hospitals and home health agencies, which increases the risk that the ipab will propose to limit access to pharmaceutical treatments or mandate price controls for our products. the aca also established the patient centered outcomes research institute (pcori), a federally funded, private, non-profit corporation empowered to fund and disseminate comparative effectiveness research (cer) and build infrastructure for improved outcomes analysis. pcori has no authority to impose formulary changes directly in government-funded health programs. however, we expect that due to the pcori, as well as the underlying market demand for data-driven differentiation, cer studies will have growing influence on access. overseeing and managing the pcori is an advisory board drawn from multiple and varied stakeholder organizations, including the pharmaceutical industry. pfizer's chief medical officer currently serves as an industry representative on the advisory board. changes in marketing activity disclosure . the aca expands the government's investigative and enforcement authority and increases the penalties for fraud and abuse, including amendments to both the false claims act and the anti-kickback statute to make it easier to bring suit under these statutes. the aca also allocates additional resources and tools for the government to police healthcare fraud, with expanded subpoena power for hhs, additional funding to investigate fraud and abuse across the healthcare system, and expanded use of recovery audit contractors for enforcement. after significant delays, starting in 2013, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to record any transfers of value made to doctors and teaching hospitals and to disclose such data to hhs, with the initial disclosure to hhs due no later than march 31, 2013. data collection and reporting will begin with the issuance of final guidance or regulations anticipated before the end of the first quarter of 2013. in addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements in such reports. the payment data across biopharmaceutical and medical device companies will be posted by hhs on a publicly available website. this increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators, industry critics and media will draw attention to our collaborations with reported entities and will importantly provide opportunities to underscore the critical nature of our collaborations for developing medicine and exchanging scientific information. this national payment transparency effort, industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (such as the updated phrma code on interactions with healthcare professionals and phrma guiding principles direct to consumer advertisements about prescription medicines ) and rigorous internal training and compliance efforts will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications. 14 medicare. medicare part d went into effect on january 1, 2006. elderly and disabled beneficiaries have access to the medicare drug benefit through private plans approved by the federal government. beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets are eligible for assistance with medicare part d plan premiums and cost sharing. nationally, the share of such beneficiaries with comprehensive drug coverage increased from 59% in 2005 to over 90% in 2011. medicare beneficiaries report high levels of satisfaction, with an overwhelming majority saying the program works well. in addition, the program costs less than originally expected. the aca made some important changes to the drug benefit, which include, in particular, phasing out the coverage gap by 2020. prior to the aca, beneficiaries who reached a certain level of spending on prescription medications (the medicare part d coverage gap or doughnut hole ) had to pay 100% of the cost of their drugs until personal out-of-pocket spending reached a level qualifying them for catastrophic coverage. the medicare part d coverage gap discount program uses public and private funding to relieve the financial burden facing beneficiaries who fall into this coverage gap. beginning in 2011, branded pharmaceutical companies paid 50% of the cost of the branded drugs in the gap and the government paid 7% of the cost of the generic drugs in the gap. as a result, rather than paying 100% of the total cost of their drugs when they reached the coverage gap, enrollees paid 50% of the total cost of branded drugs and 93% of the total cost of generic drugs. the contribution from the government for generic drugs grew to 14% in 2012, and will grow steadily over time until reaching 75% in 2020. in addition, starting in 2013, the 50% discount from branded pharmaceutical companies will be supplemented by a contribution from the government, which will also grow steadily over time until reaching 25% in 2020. that means that by 2020, enrollees will pay only 25% of the cost of their branded and generic drugs in the gap. biosimilars. the aca also created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the fda to address such key topics as the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming convention for biosimilars; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data using a non-u.s. licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. the fda has begun to address some of these issues with the february 2012 release of three draft guidance documents. specifically, the fda has clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-u.s. licensed comparator in certain studies to support a demonstration of biosimilarity to a u.s.-licensed reference product. medicaid and related matters. federal law requires branded pharmaceutical companies to provide rebates to state medicaid agencies. the aca brought about major changes in the medicaid program. collectively, the measures (i) increased federal rebates paid by manufacturers on branded drugs within the traditional medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1%, and for generic drugs from 11% to 13% of average manufacturer price (amp); (ii) expanded medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs provided through managed medicaid plans; and (iii) changed the rebate rates for line extensions or new formulations of solid oral dosage form drugs. post-implementation of aca, the centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms) withdrew its former, detailed amp-calculation rules, and new cms amp guidance was published in proposed rule form in january 2012. a final rule is expected in mid-2013. the law also creates a federal upper limit under the medicaid program for generic drugs at 175% of amp. in addition, the law expanded the types of entities eligible for the section 340b discounts for outpatient drugs that began in 2010. the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines to medicaid beneficiaries. restrictions exist for some pfizer products in certain states. access in the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. given states' current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. the aca expands medicaid coverage in 2014. the congressional budget office estimates between seven and 13 million additional people will be enrolled in medicaid by 2014. we also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1g. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues in our 2012 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. pdufa reauthorization. the prescription drug user fee act (pdufa) was first enacted in 1992 to provide the fda with additional resources to speed the review of important new medicines. prior to pdufa, inadequate funding of the fda drug review process led to a backlog of application reviews and lengthy review times. pdufa revolutionized the review 15 process for new drugs and biologics without compromising high approval standards for demonstration of product safety, quality and efficacy. pdufa expires every five years and must be reauthorized by congress. pdufa iv expired on september 30, 2012, and was renewed as title i of the fda safety and innovation act (fdasia). in addition to pdufa v, fdasia included a range of provisions important to the industry, including new user fee requirements for biosimilar products and generics. the pdufa v reauthorization reflected months of discussion between the fda, industry and other stakeholders such as patient groups and consumers. the current pdufa v agreement focuses on improving the efficiency and predictability of the review process, strengthening the agency regulatory science base and enhancing benefit-risk assessment and post-approval safety surveillance. budget control act of 2011 . in august 2011, the federal budget control act of 2011 (the budget control act) was enacted in the u.s. the budget control act includes provisions to raise the u.s. treasury department's borrowing limit, known as the debt ceiling, and provisions to reduce the federal deficit by $2.4 trillion between 2012 and 2021. deficit-reduction targets include $900 billion of discretionary spending reductions associated with hhs and various agencies charged with national security, but those discretionary spending reductions do not include programs such as medicare and medicaid or direct changes to pharmaceutical pricing, rebates or discounts. the office of management and budget (omb) is responsible for identifying the remaining $1.5 trillion of deficit reductions, which will be divided evenly between defense and non-defense spending. under this omb review process, social security, medicaid, veteran benefits and certain other spending categories are excluded from consideration, but reductions in payments to medicare providers may be made, although any such reductions are prohibited by law from exceeding 2% of the originally budgeted amount. additionally, certain payments to medicare part d plans, such as low-income subsidy payments, are exempt from reduction. while we do not know the specific nature of the spending reductions under the budget control act that will affect medicare, we do not expect that those reductions will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. however, any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement for the budget control act, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. federal debt ceiling. enforcement of the u.s. federal debt ceiling has been suspended through may 18, 2013. if the u.s. federal government fails to suspend enforcement of the debt ceiling beyond may 18, 2013 or to increase the debt ceiling and, as a result, is unable to satisfy its financial obligations, including under medicare, medicaid and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe, canada, japan, china, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. europe. the approval of new drugs across the eu may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure/decentralized procedure or eu commission/european medicines agency (ema) centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway and iceland. the use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country. since the eu does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region. the world economy in 2012 faced ongoing challenges and, in particular, continuing uncertainty around the solvency of governments. as a result, global growth has remained low, with many eu countries experiencing a second recession in recent years. one of the consequences of the economic challenges for almost all world economies has been an increase in public debt as a proportion of gross domestic product, arising from increased government spending and reduced tax receipts. for many developed economies, particularly in europe, this has exacerbated existing fiscal imbalances and has created doubt in investment markets about the sustainability of public debt levels in a number of european countries, further raising the cost of borrowing, with the result that financial support has been necessary from the eu to greece, portugal, ireland and spain and from the international monetary fund in the cases of greece, portugal and ireland. stringent austerity measures have been implemented in many european countries with the aim of closing the fiscal gap, in particular in spain and italy. under these macroeconomic conditions, pfizer continues to face widespread downward pressures on international pricing and reimbursement, particularly in developed european markets, japan and in certain emerging markets. all of which have a 16 large government share of pharmaceutical spending and are facing a difficult fiscal environment. specific pricing pressures in 2012 included measures to reduce pharmaceutical prices and expenditures in spain, italy, france, greece, ireland, portugal and japan. formal processes of international reference pricing (irp) between eu countries add to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries. price variations also have arisen from exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and other european currencies, and these also are exacerbated by international reference pricing systems. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to irp policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries and ongoing exchange rate turbulence. in january 2007, a new eu regulation on medicines for pediatric use became effective. this introduced obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for children and, subject to various conditions, offered the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. the aim of this regulation is to improve the health of children in the eu through high-quality research, stimulating the development of new medicines, creating infrastructure to enable authorized use and improving the information on medicines for children. a pediatric committee was created within the ema to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with children. in line with this regulation, pfizer is conducting a number of pediatric research programs for its in-line and development products. in july 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation came into force in the eu, which included many new and revised requirements that impact pfizer's global safety system. key changes include the establishment of a new pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee within the ema, with wide responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. accordingly, it will be possible for regulators in the eu to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies, both at the time of approval and at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional requirements to include statements in product labeling with regard to adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. the new legislation also introduces significantly greater transparency of the safety review process. the new legislation forms part of a three-part pharmaceutical package to amend the existing eu pharmaceutical legislation. the second part, the falsified medicines directive, is a directive aimed at preventing falsified medicines from entering into the legal supply chain. notably, the directive imposes new obligations on all parties in the distribution chain, including importers, traders, manufacturers, distributors, and any operator who repackages a product. member states must transpose the directive into national law and apply its provisions from january 2013 onwards. the directive also provides the legal basis of a number of implementation measures to be adopted by the european commission. most of these implementation measures are expected to be adopted between 2013 and 2014 and will not be applicable until three years after the date of publication. the third part of the package concerned the provision of information on prescription medicines to patients, which proved controversial and has been discontinued. transparency is a key theme and priority for the european commission and ema in the pharmaceutical area, particularly with regard to clinical trial results and data submitted for marketing authorization in the eu. recently, the ema has disclosed significantly more of such data, upon request, than in previous years, and the ema announced its intention to publish additional data in the future. at the end of the third quarter of 2010, the commissioner for industry and entrepreneurship of the european commission announced the launch of a process on corporate responsibility in the pharmaceutical industry. the process, which is expected to officially conclude in mid-april 2013, included three independent platforms: (i) transparency and ethics in the sector; (ii) access to medicines in africa; and (iii) access to medicines in europe in the context of pricing and reimbursement. no specific outcomes have yet been determined following the work undertaken by the platforms, but these discussions are likely to drive requests for future change, for example, on transparency and ethics in the pharmaceutical area. canada . health canada (hc) is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in canada. in october 2012, the federal minister of health announced the government's intention to (i) re-introduce the legislative and regulatory modernization (lrm) regulatory framework (which was originally presented to parliament in october 2010) and (ii) introduce orphanet to canada. orphanet is an international consortium of countries that seeks to improve the diagnosis, care and treatment of patients with rare disorders. the upcoming lrm regulatory framework is the most significant drug regulatory system reform in canada in over 50 years and is expected to overhaul canada's food and drugs act and regulations. the lrm supports a lifecycle regulatory approach and is focused on strengthening evidence-based decision-making, good regulatory planning, licensing, post-licensing, accountability, authority and enforcement. through this framework, hc intends to improve the market authorization process and implement necessary regulatory frameworks. introductory non-excessive prices and price increases are controlled by the federal patented medicines prices review board. however, reimbursement is under provincial jurisdiction. as provinces continue to face budget pressure from growing 17 healthcare expenditures, many provincial governments have developed pricing and purchasing strategies (including product listing agreements and a pan-canadian purchasing alliance initiative) to obtain better drug prices. the private sector is also attempting to exert its negotiating power on drug manufacturers. the 2004 federal provincial territorial (fpt) health accord that sets out the canada health transfers payment (a budgetary mechanism, that provides for funding to provincial governments by the federal government), plus commitments on health policy initiatives expires on march 31, 2014. in advance of the 2014 expiration of the fpt health accord, the federal government announced, in december 2011, a new funding framework that confirms its health transfer funding policy until 2024, and, assuming canada achieves its projected gross domestic product growth target of 3%, provides for funding growth of 6% annually through 2016-2017. asia. the regulatory environment in asia presents multiple issues for companies trying to achieve simultaneous global development and registration (i.e., marketing products at the same time as in the u.s., europe, canada and elsewhere). while each country in asia has its unique regulatory concerns, there are a number of regulatory issues that are common among the majority of countries in asia. for example, with the exception of japan, health authorities in asia generally require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., the u.s. fda) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. proof of reference country approval is usually satisfied by submitting a certificate of pharmaceutical product, a legal document that is issued by the competent health authority certifying that the company's product has satisfied its country's registration requirements and manufacturing standards. often, this requirement delays marketing authorization in asia by 12-15 months following marketing authorization in the u.s. and europe. another common regulatory issue in asia is the requirement for local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. each of japan, china, south korea, taiwan, india and vietnam has regulations that in some form require clinical studies in the country (e.g., china requires a prescribed number of chinese patients regardless of the product, therapeutic area or disease population). although some agencies have shown flexibility based on scientific rationale related to ethnicity assessments, it is not uncommon for companies to be required to duplicate costly clinical trials in asia pursuant to these regulations. this can further add to marketing approval delays compared to the u.s. and europe. additionally, similar requirements for local clinical data exist outside of asia in countries such as mexico and russia, where we try to ensure their inclusion in global clinical studies, where feasible, or conduct additional studies there, which further delays marketing authorization in those countries. in japan, the government is aiming to reduce the drug lag (i.e., drugs are often launched in japan years after the eu and u.s. markets) in a two-pronged approach: reducing regulatory agency review times and establishing a new pilot pricing premium. the pilot pricing premium provides a financial incentive for drug development in japan. while economic conditions and government debt levels continue to put pressure on healthcare costs resulting in cost containment (particularly in the off-patent sector), the recent extension of the pilot pricing premium for innovative products is encouraging. in south korea, the national health insurance deficit prompted the government to make significant price cuts in the off-patent sector, effective april 2012. we continue to work with a committee established by the government to improve the pricing system for innovative new drugs. the controlling regulatory agency in china is the state food and drug administration (sfda). sfda's scope of responsibilities is similar to that of the fda and ema. two key agencies within sfda are the center for drug evaluation (cde) and the national institutes for food and drug control (nifdc). the cde, which is analogous to the fda's center for drug evaluation and research, is primarily responsible for the technical review of product applications, including clinical trial applications and new drug applications, and drafting technical guidance documents. nifdc is the quality testing arm of sfda, responsible for the testing of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices nationwide. china's regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with international standards. as a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in china two to five years after first marketing in the u.s. and europe. there are three main contributing elements for this delay: (i) clinical trial authorization approval times that are five to 10 times longer than international standards and add greater than 12 months to development time; (ii) significant local chinese patient number requirements for biologic products, regardless of product characteristics or disease prevalence; and (iii) although the sfda has improved its framework for more transparency, a formal agency consultation structure, which would enable manufacturers to better align with the agency on the complexities of its drug development requirements and policies, has not been established. intellectual property . while the global intellectual property environment has improved following wto-trips, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection (see patents and intellectual property rights above). in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for 18 reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. there is considerable political pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods) and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers. in december 2012, the eu approved an eu patent package, which was agreed to by 25 out of 27 eu member states (excluding italy and spain, which opted out but which are free to opt back in). this will create a unitary eu patent, i.e., a uniform patent with equal effect that will be granted, transferred, and enforced in a unitary way through participating member states. patent grants will continue to be granted through the existing european patent office, but a new court system will be set up to enforce such patents and hear revocation actions. the central division of the new court will be in paris, although a section based in london will hear chemical and pharmaceutical cases. the new regime reduces the translation requirement, should allow patentees to obtain pan-european injunctions and damages, and should reduce forum-shopping in europe for patent holders seeking to enforce their patents, as well as generic manufacturers alleging patent invalidity or non-infringement. the eu patent package will enter into force on january 1, 2014 or, after 13 european countries have ratified it, whichever is later. canada's intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity, but is generally perceived to be less predictable than the intellectual property regimes of comparable countries. through intense negotiations as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement (ceta), the canadian intellectual property regime may be further enhanced by eu demands to align their respective intellectual property regimes. canada recently joined the trans-pacific trade partnership (tpp), and it is expected that more pressure to improve its intellectual property regime will arise if nothing results from the ceta agreement. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization (wto) provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established research and development centers in china due to increased confidence in china's intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. department of commerce priority watch list for 2012. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent, such as the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. additionally, true regulatory data protection remains elusive in china. the center for drug evaluation provides protection against reliance on data by generic applicants for a fixed period of time. following its wto accession in 2001, china revised its laws to incorporate concepts from the wto-trips, and china's relevant laws establish a six-year period of protection against unfair commercial use of undisclosed test and other data of products containing a new chemical ingredient. however, the current regulations are ambiguous as to how data protection is implemented in practice in china. for example, certain key concepts such as new chemical ingredient and unfair commercial use are undefined. in brazil and other latin american countries, backlogs at patent agencies have presented challenges for the protection of certain products. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. in india, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings, and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. india and other countries such as israel maintain a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delay the granting of patents and add an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents. in south korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system were finalized and implemented as part of the united states-korea free trade agreement in 2012. the korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics. 19 environmental law compliance most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2012 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2012 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $27 million; and other environment-related expenses $157 million. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. while there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. tax matters in our 2012 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2012, we employed approximately 91,500 people in our operations throughout the world, including approximately 9,300 people in our animal health operations. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran or other entities and individuals targeted by certain u.s. sanctions administered by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2012, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, nutritional supplements and other medical products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran and syria. u.s. law allows us to seek and rely on licenses issued by ofac to supply pfizer products to customers in these countries, for both human and animal use. we ship these pfizer products pursuant to such licenses, and we conduct our activities in accordance with our internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the u.s. and other applicable jurisdictions. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of humans and animals in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our internal policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2012 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra, with the following possible exceptions: (1) pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, during 2012, our animal health business unit, through a non-u.s. affiliate, shipped pfizer products to authorized customers in iran. these shipments were backed by letters of credit issued by bank tejarat to a non-u.s. company acquired by pfizer in 2011. the letters of credit were issued by bank tejarat and the pfizer products were shipped to customers in iran prior to the bank's designation as a specially designated national (sdn) under executive order 13382. after bank tejarat's designation, pfizer's non-u.s. affiliate sought payment from bank tejarat by presenting shipping documentation to the non-u.s. affiliate's bank in europe 20 and, as a result, subsequently received certain payments. not all funds related to these transactions have been received from bank tejarat. where required, we have requested u.s. government authorization to process the funds received and to be received. for funds received in 2012, our estimated gross revenues associated with these transactions were euro 222,962. other than as set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information , including the tables therein captioned selected income statement information, geographic information and significant product revenues in our 2012 financial report and in the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report, we do not allocate net profit on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. pfizer's net profits attributable to these transactions in 2012 were a fraction of the gross revenues. (2) pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, during 2012, our emerging markets business unit, through a non-u.s. affiliate, shipped pfizer products to authorized customers in iran. the shipments were backed by letters of credit issued by bank tejarat prior to its designation as an sdn under executive order 13382. as a result of the shipments, which also occurred prior to bank tejarat's designation, pfizer's non-u.s. affiliate sought payment from bank tejarat by presenting shipping documentation to the non-u.s. affiliate's bank in europe. in some cases, the presentation of documents occurred before bank tejarat's designation, and in other cases after such designation. not all funds related to these transactions have been received from bank tejarat. we have received u.s. government authorization for several of the foregoing transactions with bank tejarat and, where required, have requested u.s. government authorization for the other transactions with bank tejarat. for funds received in 2012, our estimated gross revenues associated with these transactions were euro 397,071. as noted above, we do not allocate net profits on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. pfizer's net profits attributable to these transactions in 2012 were a fraction of the gross revenues. (3) pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, during 2012, our emerging markets business unit, through a non-u.s. affiliate, shipped pfizer products to an authorized customer in syria. these shipments were backed by a letter of credit issued by syria international islamic bank (siib) prior to siib's designation as an sdn under executive order 13382. as a result of the shipment, which occurred prior to siib's designation as an sdn, pfizer's non-u.s. affiliate sought payment from siib by presenting shipping documentation to the non-u.s. affiliate's bank in europe. both the presentation of documents and the resulting payment occurred after siib was designated as an sdn. where required, we have requested u.s. government authorization to process the funds received. our estimated gross revenues in 2012 associated with this transaction were euro 315,960. as noted above, we do not allocate net profits on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. pfizer's net profits attributable to this transaction in 2012 were a fraction of the gross revenues. we have informed our customers that, in connection with future transactions with pfizer, bank tejarat, siib and any other banks designated as sdns under executive order 13382 are not to be used. 21 item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2012 form 10-k and in our 2012 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management's plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, target, forecast , goal , objective and other words and terms of similar meaning, or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating or financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2013 section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report and the anticipated costs and cost reductions set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. u.s. healthcare reform/healthcare legislation as mentioned above under government regulation and price constraints , the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and its provisions become effective on various dates. we expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the aca over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment u.s. healthcare legislation section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report and in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints . furthermore, the ipab created by the aca to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new regulations and programs. we also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the aca. u.s. deficit reduction and debt ceiling actions as discussed above under government regulation and price constraints budget control act of 2011 , while we do not know the specific nature of the spending reductions under the budget control act that will affect medicare, we do not expect that those reductions will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. however, any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, 22 and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement to the budget control act, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. similarly, as discussed above under government regulation and price constraints federal debt ceiling , the possible failure of the u.s. federal government to suspend enforcement of the federal debt ceiling beyond may 18, 2013 or to increase the federal debt ceiling, and any resulting inability of the federal government to satisfy its financial obligations, including making payments under medicare, medicaid and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. pricing pressures and government regulation u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our biopharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures have increased as a result of the 2003 medicare modernization act (2003 mma) due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 mma or the aca were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. furthermore, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including, among others, changes in patent laws, restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. further, there continue to be legislative proposals to amend u.s. laws to allow the importation into the u.s. of prescription drugs, which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. in addition to well-documented safety concerns, such as the increased risk of counterfeit products entering the supply chain, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in the u.s. the prohibition against the use of federal funds for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the medicare part d program, which became effective january 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe, canada, china, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for government-sponsored healthcare systems. in particular, there were government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in japan and certain european and emerging market countries in 2012, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in japan, europe and emerging markets in 2013. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain timely or adequate government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. managed care trends mcos and other private insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions. consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of these entities. private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. in addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market 23 concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. as discussed above, a number of our current products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. also, the patents covering several of our medicines, including viagra , lyrica , sutent , rapamune , epipen , torisel , pristiq and embeda extended-release capsules are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in 2012: lyrica , lipitor , enbrel , prevnar 13/prevenar 13 , celebrex , viagra , norvasc , zyvox , sutent , and the premarin family. those products accounted for 49% of our total biopharmaceutical revenues in 2012. if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products such as lipitor and xalatan/xalacom ), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. further, our alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. for example, our rights to aricept in japan returned to eisai in december 2012; our collaboration with boehringer ingelheim for spiriva expires on a country-by-country basis between 2012 and 2016, including the expiration in certain eu markets, canada and australia in 2012; our u.s. and canada collaboration agreement with amgen inc. (amgen) for enbrel will expire in october 2013 (our exclusive rights to enbrel outside the u.s. and canada will not be affected by the expiration of the co-promotion agreement with amgen); and our collaboration agreement with emd serono inc. (serono) to co-promote rebif in the u.s. will expire either at the end of 2013 or the end of 2015, depending on the outcome of pending litigation between us and serono concerning the interpretation of the agreement. see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions and overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights sections of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report for additional information on the expirations of these agreements. research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, and the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our business. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity, as well as to provide for revenue and earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products 24 that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal research and development or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. additionally, our research and development investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for research and development. in 2011, we announced a focus on fewer disease areas where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial success, as well as the implementation of our r&amp;d footprint reduction by moving forward on our productivity initiatives. there can be no assurance that this strategy will deliver the desired result in the targeted timeframe or at all, which could affect profitability in the future. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products, and there is no assurance that any of our late stage pipeline products will receive regulatory approval and/or be commercially successful or that recently approved products will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. there are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. also, increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (see post-approval data below). in addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance (see post-approval data below), in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase iv trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007 (the fdaaa) gave the fda enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. the fda's exercise of its authority under the fdaaa has in some cases resulted, and in the future could result, in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. non-u.s. regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. for 25 example, a post-marketing study as part of a post-approval commitment to marketing authorization is becoming more common in china, where the sfda requires additional clinical data in the chinese population in order to further assess the safety and efficacy of a product, sometimes independent of the level of global clinical data available. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall. furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinctive patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in a policy of routine compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. in addition, mechanisms exist in much of the world permitting some form of challenge by competitors or generic drug marketers to our patents prior to, or immediately following, the expiration of any regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches to challenge our patent rights. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. 26 biotechnology products as discussed above in patents and intellectual property and government regulation and price constraints biosimilars , abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure. the expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. we are developing biosimilar medicines. the developing pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products in the u.s. could diminish the value of our past and future investments in biosimilars. other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities once the drug receives approval. for example, more detailed studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process, but each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit and the potential delays to approval of the primary indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably foresee challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between speed, trial conduct and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 61% of our total 2012 revenues were derived from international operations, including 26% from the europe region and 21% from the japan and the rest of asia region. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the u.k. pound, the chinese renminbi, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact, and our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact, on net income. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact, and our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact, on net income. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates, can impact our results and our financial guidance. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2012 financial report. those sections of our 2012 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. 27 many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of the world's largest markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. however, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending, which, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact on us of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world, and the deteriorating finances of certain governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future. animal health the animal health operating segment may be impacted by, among other things, emerging restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals; perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products; increased regulation or decreased governmental support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals; an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals; adverse weather conditions and the availability of natural resources; adverse global economic conditions; and failure of the r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts to generate new products. see global economic conditions below. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare operating segment may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal and/or reformulation of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). see global economic conditions below. global economic conditions in addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment, which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the u.s. and europe, including the countries that use the euro, affecting the performance of products such as lyrica , enbrel , prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and celebrex , and in a number of emerging markets. we believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels, and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments to reduce their costs. challenging economic conditions in the u.s. also have increased the number of patients in the medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. in addition, we continue to experience pricing pressure in various markets around the world, including in developed european markets, japan and in a number of emerging markets, with government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products and government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries. the challenging global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or capital resources will not be affected by possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions. other potential impacts of these challenging economic conditions include declining sales; increased costs; changes in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of, or a lower rate of return on, our financial assets and pension plan investments, which may require us to increase our pension funding obligations; adverse government actions; delays or failures 28 in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. outsourcing we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, non-clinical research, safety services and other areas. for example, during 2012, we implemented the transfer of approximately 200 on-going clinical trials to two strategic partners (clinical research organizations or cros), and any issues with either or both of these cros may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. outsourcing of services to third parties could also expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery, which may result in missed deadlines, supply disruptions, non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our results. we continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. these are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. if any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of the new system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply where we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations. difficulties of our wholesale distributors in 2012, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue (and 28% of our total u.s. revenue), and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 28% of our total revenue (and 68% of our total u.s. revenue). if one of our significant wholesale distributors should encounter financial or other difficulties, such distributor might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations; or risk to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and often unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of our supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines. 29 cost and expense control/unusual events/intangible assets and goodwill growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our research and development function. in addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets will ultimately yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. for goodwill, we have seven reporting units with associated goodwill balances and, while we do not believe that the risk of goodwill impairment for any of our reporting units is significant at this time, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the u.s. federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the medicaid drug rebate program, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2012 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. 30 in connection with the resolution of certain u.s. government investigations concerning various products in september 2009, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of the inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services, which is effective through december 31, 2014. in connection with the resolution of our fcpa matters in august 2012, one of our subsidiaries entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (dpa) with the u.s. department of justice, which has a term of approximately two years. in the cia and dpa, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program and fda requirements, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption and other applicable laws. a material failure to comply with the cia or dpa could result in severe sanctions against us. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions. information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information, and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of our third party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. the size and complexity of our and our vendors' systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. we and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including criminal groups, hactivists, and others. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, and any such interruption or breach could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions our future results may be affected by (i) the impact of, and our ability to successfully execute, any strategic alternative we may decide to pursue with regard to our remaining ownership stake in zoetis, as well as any other corporate strategic initiatives we may pursue in the future, and (ii) our ability to realize the projected benefits of any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives we may pursue in the future. 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2012 financial report. 37risk factors 23 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. in addition, eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bristol-myers squibb company (bms). for additional information, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. revenues from biopharmaceutical products contributed approximately 93% of our total revenues in 2013 , 94% of our total revenues in 2012 , and 95% of our total revenues in 2011 . we recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in 2013 and 2012 , and each of 12 biopharmaceutical products in 2011 . these products represented 51% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2013, 50% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2012 and 56% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2011. see item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2013 were $47.9 billion , a decrease of 7% compared to 2012 , reflecting a decrease in operational revenues of 4% and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% . geographically, in the u.s., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 6% in 2013 , compared to 2012 . in our international markets, revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 7% in 2013 , compared to 2012 , reflecting a decrease in operational revenues of 3% and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 4% . during 2013 , international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented 61% of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to 62% in 2012 . for additional information, including a discussion of key operational revenue drivers, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical revenues and revenues major biopharmaceutical products sections of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. other products consumer healthcare based on 2013 revenues, our consumer healthcare business is the fifth-largest branded multi-national, otc, healthcare products business in the world and produces two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands ( centrum and advil ) in the world. consumer healthcare revenues totaled $3.3 billion for 2013, an increase of 4% compared to 2012, reflecting operational revenue growth of 5% , partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 1%. the consumer healthcare business holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the u.s., china, canada, germany, italy, brazil, colombia, russia, australia and france. 5 major categories and product lines in our consumer healthcare business include: dietary supplements: centrum brands (including centrum , centrum silver , centrum men's and women's , centrum specialist , centrum flavor burst , and centrum kids ), caltrate , and emergen-c ; pain management: advil brands (including advil , advil pm , advil liqui-gels , advil film coated, children's advil , infants' advil and advil migraine) , and thermacare ; respiratory: robitussin , advil cold &amp; sinus , advil congestion relief , and dimetapp ; and personal care: chapstick and preparation h. in august 2012, we entered into an agreement with astrazeneca for the global otc rights for nexium , a leading prescription drug currently approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. under the terms of the agreement, we acquired the exclusive global rights to market nexium for otc indications, which are subject to regulatory approval. during 2013, (i) a new drug application (nda) submission for nexium otc in the u.s. was accepted for review by the fda and (ii) the european commission granted a marketing authorization for an otc version of nexium . in february 2012, we completed our acquisition of alacer, a company that manufactured, marketed and distributed emergen-c , a line of effervescent, powdered drink mix vitamin supplements. in december 2011, we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of ferrosan, a danish company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the nordic region and the emerging markets of russia and central and eastern europe. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2a. acquisitions, divestitures, collaborative arrangements and equity-method investments: acquisitions in our 2013 financial report and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. for additional information regarding the revenues of our consumer healthcare business, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income consumer healthcare operating segment section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. for additional information regarding how our new global commercial structure affects our consumer healthcare business, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report and general commercial operations above. animal health on june 24, 2013, we completed the full disposition of our animal health business, which was a business that discovered, developed, manufactured and commercialized animal health medicines and vaccines. the full disposition was completed through a series of steps, including the formation of zoetis inc. (zoetis), an initial public offering of an approximate 19.8% interest in zoetis and an exchange offer for the remaining 80.2% interest. as a result of these transactions, we received cash and were relieved of debt obligations in the aggregate amount of approximately $6.1 billion and received shares of pfizer common stock valued at approximately $11.4 billion. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2b. acquisitions, divestitures, collaborative arrangements and equity-method investments: divestitures in our 2013 financial report. research and development innovation by our r&amp;d operations is very important to our success. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. we spent $6.7 billion in 2013 , $7.5 billion in 2012 and $8.7 billion in 2011 on r&amp;d. biopharmaceutical r&amp;d we conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. we also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements, acquisitions and other arrangements. 6 drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. according to the pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of america (phrma), out of 5,000-10,000 screened compounds, only 250 enter preclinical testing, five enter human clinical trials and one is approved by the fda. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than 10 years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research. as of year-end 2013, we had 279 projects in r&amp;d, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 81 programs are in phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. at year-end 2013, our phase 3 portfolio contained 20 programs. development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple different programs. while these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses or indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to r&amp;d. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. see item 1a. risk factors competitive products below. we continue to transform our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&amp;d priorities include: delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership, and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. other areas of focus include rare diseases and biosimilars. for additional information regarding our r&amp;d operations, see the costs and expenses research and development (r&amp;d) expenses research and development operations section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. international operations we have significant operations outside the u.s. in 2013, for developed markets, these operations for pharmaceutical products were managed through the same business units as our u.s. operations (i.e., primary care, specialty care, oncology and established products) and, for emerging markets, these operations for pharmaceutical products were managed through the emerging markets business unit within the established products and emerging markets operating segment. our consumer healthcare operating segment managed its operations worldwide. for additional information regarding how our new global commercial structure affects our international operations, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report and general commercial operations above. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $31.3 billion accounted for 61% of our total revenues in 2013 . revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 12, 14 and 16 countries outside the u.s. in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the u.s. is our largest national market, comprising 39% of total revenues in 2013 and 2012, and 41% of total revenues in 2011. japan is our second-largest national market, with approximately 10%, 12% and 10% of total revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2013 financial report, and the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. these include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see item 1a. risk factors risks affecting international operations below. our 7 international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints outside the united states below for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2013 financial report, as well as the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. those sections of our 2013 financial report are incorporated by reference. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, and the managed care organizations (mcos) that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems (ids), pharmacy benefit managers (pbms), health plans, employers and government agencies. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of prevnar 13 in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to individual provider offices. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and mco formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos. mcos use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we also work with mcos to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. during 2013, pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows: mckesson, inc. 12% of our total revenues (and 30% of our total u.s. revenues); cardinal health, inc. 9% of our total revenues (and 22% of our total u.s. revenues); and amerisourcebergen corporation 8% of our total revenues (and 21% of our total u.s. revenues). sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses. our global consumer healthcare business utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets. our consumer healthcare business's advertising and promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. our consumer healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the consumer healthcare business. patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. 8 patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year viagra 2012 (1) 2013 2013 (1) enbrel (2) n/a 2015 2015 celebrex 2014 (3) 2014 2019 zyvox 2015 2016 2019 lyrica 2018 2014 (4) 2022 bosulif 2019 2019 n/a (5) chantix 2020 2021 2022 inlyta 2020 2020 2025 xeljanz 2020 n/a (6) 2025 sutent 2021 2021 2024 eliquis (7) 2023 2026 2026 prevnar 13 (8) 2026 2026 2026 xalkori 2029 2025 2028 (1) in addition to the basic product patent covering viagra , which expired in 2012, it is covered by a u.s. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with revatio , which has the same active ingredient as viagra , expires in 2020. however, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. will be allowed to launch a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017, or earlier under certain circumstances. the corresponding method-of-treatment patent covering viagra in japan expires in may 2014. (2) pfizer does not market enbrel in the u.s. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. in other markets, biosimilar competition will depend, to a significant extent, on the timing and implementation of regulations governing the development and approval of biosimilar products. (3) we obtained a reissue patent in the u.s. on march 5, 2013 covering the approved uses of celebrex . the reissue patent expires on december 2, 2015. this patent is presently the subject of litigation between pfizer and several generic companies. (4) for lyrica , regulatory exclusivity in the eu extends until 2014. (5) bosulif is not approved in japan. (6) xeljanz is not approved in the eu. (7) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. 9 (8) prevnar 13 may eventually face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent and next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines. we co-promote aricept with eisai. we lost exclusivity for aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in the u.s. in november 2010, and in the majority of european markets in february 2012 and april 2012. we lost exclusivity for the aricept 23mg tablet in the u.s. in july 2013. for additional information, including a description of certain of our other co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights sections of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. a number of our current products have lost exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. for example, in the u.s., we lost exclusivity for geodon in march 2012, revatio tablet in september 2012 and rapamune in january 2014. we lost exclusivity for xalatan and xalacom in the majority of european markets in january 2012 and australia in july 2012. we lost exclusivity in the u.s. for detrol immediate release ( detrol ir ) in june 2012 and detrol la in january 2014. detrol ir and detrol la lost exclusivity in most european markets in september 2012. viagra lost exclusivity in most major eu markets in june 2013. we lost exclusivity for lyrica in canada in february 2013. lipitor has lost exclusivity in all major markets and now faces multi-source generic competition in the u.s., europe, japan and australia. for additional information, including a further discussion of our recent losses of exclusivity and associated revenues in various markets and of our expected losses of exclusivity in 2014, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products, viagra , celebrex , lyrica , sutent , epipen , pristiq , toviaz , tygacil and embeda extended-release capsules, and our patent for lipitor in china is subject to a pending legal challenge . for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a1. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2013 financial report. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. biotechnology products our biotechnology products, including benefix , refacto , xyntha, enbrel (we market enbrel outside of the u.s. and canada) and the prevnar family, may face competition in the future from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin, which was approved under the u.s. federal food, drug and cosmetic act. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the heath care and education reconciliation act (commonly referred to as the affordable care act, or aca), a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. the regulatory implementation of these aca provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. however, the fda has begun to clarify its expectations for approval via the biosimilar pathway with the issuance of three draft guidance documents in february 2012. over the next several years, the fda is expected to finalize the guidance documents released in 2012 and issue new draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars. see government regulation and price constraints biosimilars below for additional information on the aca's approval framework for biosimilars. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. in 2013, the european medicines agency (ema) approved the first biosimilar of a monoclonal antibody. in japan, the regulatory authority has 10 granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in our genotropin product), pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars that reference our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. however, biosimilar manufacturing is complex and biosimilars are not necessarily identical to the reference products. therefore, at least initially upon approval of a biosimilar competitor, biosimilar competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant as generic competition with respect to small molecule drugs. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop biosimilar medicines. as such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the u.s. see item 1a. risk factors biotechnology products below. we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2016 for least-developed countries. while we still face enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, a number of countries have made improvements. we have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those countries. we include further patent protection improvement among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. we also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons' efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. 11 our consumer healthcare business faces competition from otc business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including, among others, the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors' promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors' introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to otc switches). managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 262 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see government regulation and price constraints in the united states below), both the marketing of prescription drugs to consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continue to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically use formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence market share and volume of prescription drugs to negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. unlike us, generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. this means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. 12 as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. the substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. in the u.s., pfizer's greenstone subsidiary and pfizer injectables sell generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. no serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2013, and none are expected in 2014. we have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements where there have been short-term imbalances between supply and demand, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid. government regulation and price constraints in the united states general. pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. of particular importance in the u.s. is the fda, which has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. the fda also regulates our consumer healthcare products. other federal agencies, including the u.s. department of agriculture and the u.s. drug enforcement administration, also regulate some of our products. in addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the department of health and human services (hhs) office of the inspector general (oig), the federal trade commission (ftc) (which also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including otc drugs and dietary supplements), the department of justice (doj) and the sec. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. we are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various governmental bodies. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2013 financial report. such actions may involve product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. healthcare reform. in march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. the principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry provide for the following: an increase, from 15.1% to 23.1%, in the minimum rebate on branded prescription drugs sold to medicaid beneficiaries (effective january 1, 2010); extension of medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain medicaid managed care organizations (effective march 23, 2010); expansion of the types of institutions eligible for the section 340b discounts for outpatient drugs provided to hospitals serving a disproportionate share of low-income individuals and meeting the qualification criteria under section 340b of the public health service act of 1944 (effective january 1, 2010); discounts on branded prescription drug sales to medicare part d participants who are in the medicare coverage gap, also known as the doughnut hole (effective january 1, 2011); and a fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective january 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018). 13 as of may 2013, the congressional budget office estimates that the aca will result in the coverage of 25 million previously uninsured individuals by 2017. effective in 2014, non-medicare eligible individuals with incomes below 138% of the federal poverty level (fpl) are eligible for medicaid if they live in one of the 25 states that elected to expand the program using federal funds. the remainder will be covered with private sector coverage, either through their employers, the individual insurance marketplace or new state or federal health insurance exchanges enacted through the aca (health insurance exchanges). with limited exceptions, individuals who fail to purchase health insurance by march 31, 2014 will pay a penalty. starting in 2015, employers with 100 or more employees who do not provide affordable and qualifying coverage will also pay a penalty (beginning in 2016, employers with between 50 and 99 employees who do not provide affordable and qualifying coverage will be penalized). individuals with incomes between 100%-400% of the fpl will be eligible for subsidies to help pay for health insurance coverage in the health insurance exchanges. the health insurance exchanges were created by the aca to provide an opportunity for individuals without access to employer or other government sponsored coverage to purchase insurance from private health plans offering coverage compliant with aca mandated provisions. states could choose to operate the health insurance exchange with a federal grant, or defer operations to the federal government. regardless of the facilitator, the health insurance exchanges offer similar coverage. federal and state health insurance exchange websites opened for enrollment on october 1, 2013 and experienced computer access difficulties. the separate website for the small business exchanges (shop) was delayed until late 2014 for states utilizing the federal health insurance exchange. coverage began on january 1, 2014 and enrollment remains open until march 31, 2014. the aca specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the health insurance exchanges, including prescription drugs. in general, health plans in the health insurance exchange offer benefits that are more restrictive than the typical large employer, but more comprehensive than most catastrophic health insurance plans and some other limited policies available in the individual insurance marketplace. this means that there are high deductibles and co-pays, increased use of co-insurance, fewer medicines on formularies and restricted networks of physicians and hospitals. expanding insurance coverage is expected to result in a negligible change in overall pharmaceutical industry sales, as the uninsured are principally young and relatively healthy and it is expected that a significant percentage may be covered by medicaid (under which sales of pharmaceutical products are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours), and the restrictive benefit designs discourage the use of branded drugs. at the same time, the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs associated with the aca are a significant cost to the industry. the aca created the independent payment advisory board (ipab), a 15-member panel to be appointed by the president. the ipab is charged with developing proposals to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending in the event that the actual medicare per capita growth rate exceeds a specified target. due to slow growth in healthcare spending that did not exceed the target per capita growth rate, the ipab will not be required to act until 2016, at the earliest. to date, the ipab's members have not been named or appointed. the aca also established the patient centered outcomes research institute (pcori), a federally funded, private, non-profit corporation empowered to fund and disseminate comparative effectiveness research (cer) and build infrastructure for improved outcomes analysis. pcori has no authority to impose formulary changes directly in government-funded health programs. in 2013, pcori announced that it will issue a new type of funding for pragmatic, head-to-head comparison studies, as well as plans to develop a national clinical research data network. both developments are expected to increase the availability of medical evidence related to healthcare interventions. overseeing and managing the pcori is an advisory board drawn from multiple and varied stakeholder organizations, including the pharmaceutical industry. pfizer's chief medical officer currently serves as an industry representative on the advisory board. changes in marketing activity disclosure . the aca expands the government's investigative and enforcement authority and increases the penalties for fraud and abuse, including amendments to both the false claims act and the anti-kickback statute to make it easier to bring suit under these statutes. the aca also allocates additional resources and tools for the government to police healthcare fraud, with expanded subpoena power for hhs, additional funding to investigate fraud and abuse across the healthcare system, and expanded use of recovery audit contractors for enforcement. as of august 2013, biopharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers are required to record any transfers of value made to licensed physicians and teaching hospitals and to disclose such data to hhs, with the initial disclosure to hhs due no later than march 31, 2014. in addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements or excludes information in such reports. the payment data across biopharmaceutical and medical device companies will be posted by hhs on a publicly available website no later than september 30, 2014. increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators, industry 14 critics and media will draw attention to our collaborations with reported entities and will importantly provide opportunities to underscore the critical nature of our collaborations for developing new medicines and exchanging scientific information. this national payment transparency effort coupled with industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (such as the phrma code on interactions with healthcare professionals and phrma guiding principles direct to consumer advertisements about prescription medicines ) and rigorous internal training and compliance efforts will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications. medicare. elderly and disabled beneficiaries have access to the medicare drug benefit through private plans approved by the federal government. beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets are eligible for assistance with medicare part d plan premiums and cost sharing. nationally, the share of such beneficiaries with comprehensive drug coverage increased from 59% in 2005 to approximately 90% in 2011. the aca made some important changes to the medicare drug benefit, including phasing out the medicare coverage gap by 2020. prior to the aca, beneficiaries who reached a certain level of spending on prescription medications (the medicare part d coverage gap or doughnut hole ) had to pay 100% of the cost of their drugs until personal out-of-pocket spending reached a level qualifying them for catastrophic coverage. the medicare part d coverage gap discount program uses public and private funding to relieve the financial burden facing beneficiaries who fall into this coverage gap. beginning in 2011, branded pharmaceutical companies paid 50% of the cost of the branded drugs in the gap and the government paid 7% of the cost of the generic drugs in the gap. as a result, rather than paying 100% of the total cost of their drugs when they reached the coverage gap, enrollees paid 50% of the total cost of branded drugs and 93% of the total cost of generic drugs. the contribution from the government for generic drugs grew to 14% in 2012, and will grow steadily over time until reaching 75% in 2020. in addition, starting in 2013, the 50% discount from branded pharmaceutical companies was supplemented by a contribution from the government, which will also grow steadily over time until reaching 25% in 2020. that means that by 2020, enrollees will pay only 25% of the cost of their branded and generic drugs in the gap. biosimilars. the aca also created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the fda to address such key topics as the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming convention for biosimilars; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data using a non-u.s.-licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. the fda has begun to address some of these issues with the february 2012 release of three draft guidance documents. specifically, the fda has clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-u.s.-licensed comparator in certain studies to support a demonstration of biosimilarity to a u.s.-licensed reference product. over the next several years, the fda is expected to finalize the guidance documents released in 2012 and issue new draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars. medicaid and related matters. federal law requires branded pharmaceutical companies to provide rebates to state medicaid agencies. the aca brought about major changes in the medicaid program. collectively, the measures (i) increased federal rebates paid by manufacturers on branded drugs within the traditional medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1%, and for generic drugs from 11% to 13% of average manufacturer price (amp); (ii) expanded medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs provided through managed medicaid plans; and (iii) changed the rebate rates for line extensions or new formulations of solid oral dosage form drugs. the law also created a federal upper limit under the medicaid program for generic drugs at 175% of amp. in addition, the law expanded the types of entities eligible for the section 340b discounts for outpatient drugs that began in 2010. post-implementation of the aca, the centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms) withdrew its former, detailed amp-calculation rules, and, in january 2014, a new rule regarding amp was released, which revises requirements pertaining to medicaid reimbursement for covered outpatient drugs. the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines in medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products in certain states. access in the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. given certain states' current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. pfizer must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1g. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues in our 2013 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. 15 pdufa reauthorization. the prescription drug user fee act (pdufa) was first enacted in 1992 to provide the fda with additional resources to speed the review of important new medicines. prior to pdufa, inadequate funding of the fda drug review process led to a backlog of application reviews and lengthy review times. pdufa revolutionized the review process for new drugs and biologics without compromising high approval standards for demonstration of product safety, quality and efficacy. pdufa expires every five years and must be reauthorized by congress. pdufa iv expired on september 30, 2012, and was renewed as title i of the fda safety and innovation act (fdasia). in addition to pdufa v, fdasia included a range of provisions important to the industry, including new user fee requirements for biosimilar products and generics. the pdufa v reauthorization reflected months of discussion between the fda, industry and other stakeholders such as patient groups and consumers. the current pdufa v agreement focuses on improving the efficiency and predictability of the review process, strengthening the agency regulatory science base and enhancing benefit-risk assessment and post-approval safety surveillance. budget control act of 2011 . in august 2011, the federal budget control act of 2011 (the budget control act) was enacted in the u.s. the budget control act includes provisions to raise the u.s. treasury department's borrowing limit, known as the debt ceiling, and provisions to reduce the federal deficit by $2.4 trillion between 2012 and 2021. deficit-reduction targets included $900 billion of discretionary spending reductions associated with hhs and various agencies charged with national security, but those discretionary spending reductions do not include programs such as medicare and medicaid or direct changes to pharmaceutical pricing, rebates or discounts. the office of management and budget (omb) was responsible for identifying the remaining $1.5 trillion of deficit reductions, which were divided evenly between defense and non-defense spending. under this omb review process, social security, medicaid, veteran benefits and certain other spending categories were excluded from consideration, but reductions in payments to medicare providers are allowed, although these reductions are prohibited by law from exceeding a 2% reduction of the originally budgeted amount (until 2021). additionally, certain payments to medicare part d plans, such as low-income subsidy payments, were exempt from reduction. the budget control act spending reductions to date have not had a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in december 2013, congress enacted minor amendments to the budget control act, providing for greater discretionary spending in 2014 and 2015 than originally budgeted. the amendments also provide for fda user fee sequester relief for two years, allowing the fda to continue to review new products. the new legislation continues to prohibit reductions in payments to medicare providers from exceeding a 2% reduction of the originally budgeted amount, and extends this prohibition for two years (until 2023). the implications to pfizer of these changes are expected to be nominal. however, any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement for the budget control act, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. sustainable growth rate replacement . the medicare physician payment formula known as the sustainable growth rate (sgr) is routinely overridden by congressional action because it would lead to dramatic decreases in physician payment. congress issued a bi-partisan proposal to repeal the sgr and replace it with a new payment model. the proposed fee-for-service system would provide a modest annual payment rate increase until 2018, while allowing physicians and healthcare professionals to earn performance-based incentive payments after 2018. this form of sgr replacement is estimated by the congressional budget office to cost the federal government approximately $130 billion over 10 years. the source of those funds has yet to be determined, but could include additional taxes on and/or rebate requirements applicable to the pharmaceutical industry, including pfizer. congress is considering a bill and is working to identify the means to pay for it prior to march 31, 2014, when the current sgr will expire. federal debt ceiling. after the debt ceiling was reached on may 19, 2013 and measures taken by the u.s. treasury department to enable the u.s. federal government to continue meeting its financial obligations were nearly exhausted, congress enacted legislation on october 16, 2013 that suspended the debt ceiling through february 7, 2014 and preserved the ability of the u.s. treasury department to use extraordinary measures to avoid a default on u.s. federal government debt for a short period of time thereafter. in february 2014, congress enacted legislation that further suspends the debt ceiling until march 15, 2015, effectively ensuring the u.s. federal government's ability to satisfy its financial obligations in until that date, including under medicare, medicaid and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that have a direct impact on our results of operations. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. 16 pricing and reimbursement . in europe, japan, china, canada and south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. the eu does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, so we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region. the world economy in 2013 faced ongoing challenges and, in particular, continuing uncertainty around the solvency of governments. as a result, global growth has remained low, with many eu countries experiencing a recession in recent years. one of the consequences of the economic challenges for almost all world economies has been an increase in public debt as a proportion of gross domestic product, arising from increased government spending and reduced tax receipts. for many developed economies, particularly in europe, this has exacerbated existing fiscal imbalances and has created doubt in investment markets about the sustainability of public debt levels in a number of european countries, further raising the cost of borrowing, with the result that financial support has been necessary from the eu to greece, portugal, ireland and spain and from the international monetary fund in the cases of greece, portugal, ireland and cyprus. ireland ceased receiving eu financial support in december 2013, and spain ceased receiving eu financial support in january 2014. stringent austerity measures have been implemented in many european countries with the aim of closing the fiscal gap, in particular in spain, italy and greece. while the second half of 2013 saw a return to slow economic growth in many western european countries (and the eu as a whole) significant pressure on public spending is likely to continue for the foreseeable future as many countries seek to reduce their outstanding public debt. central and eastern europe, particularly countries such as romania, hungary and slovenia, are also experiencing pressures on public spending. under these macroeconomic conditions, pfizer continues to face widespread downward pressures on international pricing and reimbursement, particularly in developed european markets, japan and in certain emerging markets, all of which have a large government share of pharmaceutical spending and are facing a difficult fiscal environment. specific pricing pressures in 2013 included measures to reduce pharmaceutical prices and expenditures in japan, france, italy, spain, greece, belgium, ireland and portugal. the practice of eu member states linking their regulated medicine prices to those of other countries, i.e., international reference pricing (irp), adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations have also resulted from exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and other european currencies, which are exacerbated by irp systems. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to irp policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries and ongoing exchange rate fluctuations. in several latin american markets, pfizer continues to face revenue pressures due to government policies aimed at health cost containment, including price controls (venezuela), irp (colombia) and pricing reforms (brazil and argentina). in canada, introductory non-excessive prices and price increases are controlled by the federal patented medicines prices review board. however, reimbursement is under provincial jurisdiction. as provinces continue to face budget pressure from growing healthcare expenditures, many provincial governments have developed pricing and purchasing strategies (including product listing agreements and a pan-canadian pricing alliance initiative) to obtain lower drug prices. the private sector is also attempting to exert its negotiating power on drug manufacturers. in south korea, the national health insurance deficit prompted the government to make significant price cuts in the off-patent sector, effective april 2012. in september 2013, the government revised its pricing policy again to introduce risk sharing schemes. we continue to work with a committee established by the government to improve the pricing system for innovative new drugs. turkey references prices to several european markets at a fixed exchange rate between the euro and the turkish lira. though actual exchange rates have since diverged significantly from that fixed rate, the turkish government has, to date, not adjusted the exchange rate, which negatively impacts our financial results in turkey. european union new drug approval . the approval of new drugs across the eu may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure/decentralized procedure or eu commission/ema centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway and iceland. the use of these procedures generally 17 provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country. eu regulation on medicines for pediatric use . in january 2007, the eu regulation on medicines for pediatric use became effective. this introduced obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for children and, subject to various conditions, offered the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. a pediatric committee was created within the ema to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with children. in accordance with this regulation, pfizer has completed and is conducting pediatric research programs for its in-line and development products and has successfully obtained the exclusivity extension incentive for a number of products. pharmacovigilance legislation . in july 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation came into force in the eu, which included new and revised requirements that impact pfizer's global safety system. key changes include the establishment of a new pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee within the ema, with responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. it also introduces the possibility for regulators in the eu to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies at the time of approval, or, at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. the new legislation also introduces significantly increased transparency into the safety review process. falsified medicines directive . in 2013, the falsified medicines directive came into force, portions of which have become effective and the remaining portions of which will become effective at various times. the directive is aimed at preventing falsified medicines from entering into the eu's legal supply chain. notably, the directive imposes new obligations on all parties in the distribution chain, including importers, traders, manufacturers, distributors, and any operator who repackages a product, with key safety features expected to be in place by 2017. draft clinical trials regulation. at the end of 2013, the text of a new eu regulation on clinical trials was agreed to in principle and is expected to become law in 2014, and to be implemented in 2016. the new regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the eu, particularly the processes for submission and approval of clinical trial applications, which have been criticized as harming europe's competitiveness in clinical r&amp;d of new medicines. in line with the pro-transparency policy of the eu institutions, the new regulation will also require public posting of clinical trial results to a significantly greater extent than before. clinical trial data sharing. transparency in the pharmaceutical area is a key theme and priority for the european commission and the ema, particularly with regard to clinical trial results and data submitted for marketing authorization in the eu. recently, the ema has disclosed significantly more of such data, upon request, than in previous years. in june 2013, the ema issued a draft policy on the publication and access to clinical trial data for public consultation, which proposes to publish certain clinical trial data, including clinical study reports, on its website. this new policy was originally intended to be effective on january 1, 2014 and apply to marketing authorization applications and variation applications submitted to the ema after march 2014. however, due to the large number of comments received, the ema has postponed the effective date and is currently reviewing the draft policy. in july 2013, the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations (efpia) and phrma introduced their principles for responsible clinical trial data sharing: our commitment to patients and researchers as an alternative to the ema's proposed rules. under these principles, efpia and phrma member companies have committed to enhancing public health through responsible sharing of clinical data. pfizer publicly released its updated clinical trial data sharing policy in december 2013, which meets or exceeds all aspects of these commitments. corporate responsibility in the eu pharmaceutical sector . in 2010, the commissioner for industry and entrepreneurship of the european commission launched a process on corporate responsibility in the pharmaceutical industry. the process, which concluded in october 2013, included three independent platforms: (i) transparency and ethics in the sector; (ii) access to medicines in africa; and (iii) access to medicines in europe in the context of pricing and reimbursement. while all platforms have produced reports, concrete recommendations appear vague. the european commission is currently evaluating how to build on these results and is considering a new industrial policy for the pharmaceutical sector, likely to be launched in the second half of 2014. transfers of value disclosures (2013) . in july 2013, efpia released its disclosure code of transfers of value to healthcare professionals and organizations. the code requires all members of efpia, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations beginning in 2016, covering the relevant transfers in 2015. each member 18 company will be required to document and disclose: (i) the names of healthcare professionals and associations that have received payments or other transfers of value and (ii) the amounts or value transferred, and the type of relationship. canada health canada (hc) is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in canada. in 2012, as part of the legislative regulatory modernization (lrm), hc released the regulatory roadmap for health products and food (a five-year plan) and, in 2013, a new patient safety legislation that is expected to give hc more authority (equivalent to the fda and ema) was introduced to parliament. the goals of the new framework are: (i) to protect against the sale and advertising of unsafe food and health products; (ii) to implement a science-based regulatory system, in which benefits, harms and uncertainties associated with health products are made transparent to the public; and (iii) to ensure that the regulatory system is efficient, sustainable and responsive to the evolution of science, patient and consumer behavior, as well as practices in healthcare . the future regulatory system is expected to be more consumer and patient-centered and focused on evidence. 2014 priorities include orphan drug regulations, plain language labeling and use of foreign regulatory information. the 2004 federal provincial territorial (fpt) health accord that sets out the canada health transfers payment (a budgetary mechanism, that provides for funding to provincial governments by the federal government), plus commitments on health policy initiatives expires on march 31, 2014. in advance of the 2014 expiration of the fpt health accord, the federal government announced, in december 2011, a new funding framework that provides for funding growth of 6% annually through 2016-2017, and growth each year thereafter (through 2024) equal to the increase in the nominal gross domestic product (with a floor set at 3%). while this new formula results in financial predictability through 2024, many provinces may face a funding shortfall that could potentially result in, among other things, budget reductions for drug reimbursement and/or additional cost containment measures. asia the regulatory environment in asia presents multiple challenges for companies trying to achieve simultaneous global development and registration (i.e., marketing products at the same time as in the u.s., europe, canada and elsewhere). while each country in asia has its unique regulatory concerns, there are a number of regulatory issues that are common among the majority of countries in asia. for example, with the exception of japan, health authorities in asia generally require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., the fda) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. proof of reference country approval is usually satisfied by submitting a certificate of pharmaceutical product, a legal document that is issued by the competent health authority certifying that the company's product has satisfied its country's registration requirements and manufacturing standards. often, this requirement delays marketing authorization in asia by 12-15 months following marketing authorization in the u.s. and europe. another common regulatory issue in asia is the requirement for local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. each of japan, china, south korea, taiwan, india and vietnam has regulations that in some form require clinical studies in the country (e.g., china requires a prescribed number of chinese patients regardless of the product, therapeutic area or disease population). although some agencies have shown flexibility based on scientific rationale related to ethnicity assessments, it is not uncommon for companies to be required to duplicate costly clinical trials in asia pursuant to these regulations. this can further add to marketing approval delays compared to the u.s. and europe. additionally, similar requirements for local clinical data exist outside of asia in countries such as mexico and russia, where we try to ensure their inclusion in global clinical studies, where feasible, or conduct additional studies there, which further delays marketing authorization in those countries. in japan, the government has taken measures to reduce the drug lag (i.e., historically, drugs were often launched in japan years after the eu and u.s. markets) by utilizing a two-pronged approach: (i) reducing regulatory agency review times and (ii) establishing a new pilot pricing premium. the pilot pricing premium provides a financial incentive for drug development in japan. while economic conditions and government debt levels continue to put pressure on healthcare costs resulting in cost containment (particularly in the off-patent sector), the extension of the pilot pricing premium (until december 2015) for innovative products is encouraging. the controlling regulatory agency in china is the china food and drug administration (cfda). cfda's scope of responsibilities is similar to that of the fda and ema. two key agencies within cfda are the center for drug evaluation (cde) and the national institutes for food and drug control (nifdc). the cde, which is analogous to the fda's center for drug evaluation and research, is primarily responsible for the technical review of product applications, including clinical trial applications and new drug applications, and drafting technical guidance documents. nifdc is the quality testing arm of cfda, responsible for the testing of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices nationwide. 19 china's regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with international standards. as a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in china two to five years after first marketing in the u.s. and europe. there are three main contributing factors to this delay: (i) clinical trial authorization approval times that are five to 10 times longer than international standards and add greater than 12 months to development time; (ii) significant local chinese patient number requirements for biologic products, regardless of product characteristics or disease prevalence; and (iii) with respect to imported vaccines, a reference country approval is required in order to start clinical trials and the regulatory approval process. additionally, in 2013, the pharmaceutical industry, including pfizer, experienced regulatory challenges in china, all of which contributed to delays in market access and/or further resource expenditures, including: (i) stricter chinese quality standards compared to fda and eu quality standards; (ii) increased cde product registration application backlogs (e.g., the cde initiated its review of a pfizer product registration application 12 months after submission); and (iii) post-marketing clinical studies. in india, the federal regulatory authority, the central drugs standard control organization (cdsco), led by the drugs controller general india, is responsible for regulation of biopharmaceuticals, including clinical trial authorization. in 2013, based on its evaluation of the cdsco, the indian government implemented legislative changes that impacted the conduct and regulatory oversight of clinical trials, which make it more difficult for the pharmaceutical industry, including pfizer, to conduct clinical research in india. for example, during the first half of 2013, the supreme court of india banned all clinical trials for new chemical entities unless approved by the ministry of health. additionally, approval times for product registration have increased in india compared to previous years, primarily due to internal framework changes within cdsco. intellectual property while the global intellectual property environment has improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection (see patents and other intellectual property rights above). in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. there is considerable political pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries. in december 2012, the eu approved an eu patent package, which was agreed to by 25 out of 27 eu member states (excluding italy and spain, which opted out but which are free to opt back in). this will create a unitary eu patent, i.e., a uniform patent with equal effect that will be granted, transferred, and enforced in a unitary way through participating member states. patent grants will continue to be granted through the existing european patent office, but a new court system will be set up to enforce such patents and hear revocation actions. the central division of the new court will be in paris, although a section based in london will hear chemical and pharmaceutical cases. the new regime reduces the translation requirement, should allow patentees to obtain pan-european injunctions and damages, and should reduce forum-shopping in europe for patent holders seeking to enforce their patents, as well as generic manufacturers alleging patent invalidity or non-infringement. the eu patent package will enter into force after 13 european countries have ratified it. canada's intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity, but is generally perceived to be less predictable than the intellectual property regimes of comparable countries. through intense negotiations as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement (ceta), the canadian intellectual property regime looks to potentially be further enhanced by eu demands to align their respective intellectual property regimes. canada recently joined the ongoing negotiations of the trans-pacific trade partnership (tpp), and it is expected that the tpp negotiations will further pressure canada to enhance its intellectual property regime. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization (wto) provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established r&amp;d centers in china due to increased confidence in china's intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. department of commerce priority watch list for 2013. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in 20 other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., anvisa in brazil), restrictive patentability rules and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. in india, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings, and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. india maintains a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delays the granting of patents and adds an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents. indian law includes special restrictions on the types of pharmaceutical inventions that may be patented which may limit our ability to protect our products. recent use by the indian government of compulsory licensing and patent revocation mechanisms heightens the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population, such as infectious diseases, cancer and diabetes. in september 2012, pfizer's patent covering sutent was revoked by the indian patent office and other challenges against pfizer patents are ongoing. in south korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system were finalized and are in the process of being implemented as part of the united states-korea free trade agreement in 2012. the korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2013 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2013 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $14 million; and other environment-related expenses $147 million. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including potential physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to more frequent and severe weather events and water availability. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not believe these risks are material to pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. tax matters in our 2013 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2013, we employed approximately 77,700 people in our operations throughout the world. 21 disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224 (the executive orders). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2013, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines and medical products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran and syria. we ship pfizer products to iran and syria, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2013 is required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra, with the following possible exceptions: pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, pfizer, through a non-u.s. subsidiary, shipped pfizer products to authorized customers in iran. in 2013, some of these shipments, which were arranged and effectuated by a third-party logistics company, were sent to iran on aircraft owned or operated by iran air or aban air. these air carriers are designated under the executive orders. pfizer neither entered into agreements with these designated air carriers nor made any direct payments to these carriers. pfizer paid air freight expenses associated with these shipments to the third-party logistics company, in the amount of approximately euro 43,716. we have voluntarily self-disclosed this matter to the u.s. government. we have instructed our third-party logistics companies not to use air carriers designated under the executive orders to ship pfizer products in the future, and we are implementing additional controls to address this issue. 22 item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2013 form 10-k and in our 2013 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management's plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, target, forecast, goal, objective, aim and other words and terms of similar meaning, or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating or financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2014 section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report; the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company ' pension and postretirement plans during 2014 set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2013 financial report and in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. u.s. healthcare reform/healthcare legislation as mentioned above in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints in the united states , the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and its provisions become effective on various dates, with the medicaid and health insurance exchange coverage expansion effective in 2014. we expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the aca over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment regulatory environment/pricing and access u.s. healthcare legislation section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report and in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints in the united states . furthermore, if asked to act in 2016 or beyond, the ipab (created by the aca to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending) could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new regulations and programs. we also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the aca. 23 u.s. deficit-reduction actions as discussed above in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints budget control act of 2011 , the budget control act spending reductions to date have not had a material adverse impact on our results of operations. however, any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort or legislative replacement to the budget control act, or to reform the sustainable growth rate, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. pricing pressures and government regulation u.s. and international governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our biopharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures have increased as a result of the 2003 medicare modernization act (2003 mma) and the aca due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 mma or the aca were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. furthermore, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including, among others, changes in patent laws, the importation of drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of foreign countries, restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe, japan, china, canada and south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for government-sponsored healthcare systems. in particular, there were government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in japan and certain european and emerging market countries in 2013, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in japan, europe and emerging markets in 2014. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain timely or adequate government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. managed care trends consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. in addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. this cost shifting has given consumers greater control of medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. 24 generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. as discussed above, a number of our current products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. also, the patents covering several of our medicines, including viagra , celebrex , lyrica , sutent , epipen , pristiq , toviaz , tygacil and embeda extended-release capsules in the u.s. and lipitor in china are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, which can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in 2013: lyrica , the prevnar family of products, enbrel , celebrex , lipitor , viagra , zyvox , norvasc , sutent , and the premarin family of products. those products accounted for 51% of our total biopharmaceutical revenues in 2013. if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted above in item 1. business under the caption patents and other intellectual property rights , patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. further, our alliance revenues have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. for example, our rights to aricept in japan returned to eisai in december 2012; our collaboration with boehringer ingelheim for spiriva expires on a country-by-country basis between 2012 and 2016, including the expiration in certain eu markets, canada and australia in early 2013 and in the u.s. and certain other eu markets in early 2014; our u.s. and canada co-promotion agreement with amgen inc. (amgen) for enbrel expired on october 31, 2013 (our exclusive rights to enbrel outside the u.s. and canada are not affected by the expiration of the co-promotion agreement with amgen); and our collaboration agreement with emd serono inc. to co-promote rebif in the u.s. will expire at the end of 2015. see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions and overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights sections of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report for additional information on the expirations of these agreements. research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, and the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for the future and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new 25 product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d. we continue to transform our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. there can be no assurance that this transformation or these strategies will deliver the desired result, which could affect profitability in the future. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable clinical trial results. there can be no assurance regarding our ability to meet anticipated clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission dates, and launch dates for product candidates, or as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products, and there is no assurance that any of our late stage pipeline products will receive regulatory approval and/or be commercially successful or that recently approved products will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. there are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect the realization of r&amp;d and product-related, forward-looking statements. further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. also, increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (see post-approval data below). in addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance (see post-approval data below), in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase iv trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007 (the fdaaa) gave the fda enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. the fda's exercise of its authority under the fdaaa has in some cases resulted, and in the future could result, in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. non-u.s. regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. for example, a post-marketing study as part of a post-approval commitment to marketing authorization is becoming more 26 common in china, where the cfda requires additional clinical data in the chinese population in order to further assess the safety and efficacy of a product, sometimes independent of the level of global clinical data available. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall. furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinctive patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in a policy of routine compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. in addition, mechanisms exist in much of the world permitting some form of challenge by competitors or generic drug marketers to our patents prior to, or immediately following, the expiration of any regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches to challenge our patent rights. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. biotechnology products as discussed above in item 1. business under the captions patents and other intellectual property and government regulation and price constraints biosimilars , abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may 27 become subject to competition from biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. the expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. we are developing biosimilar medicines. the developing pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products in the u.s. could diminish the value of our past and future investments in biosimilars. other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities once the drug receives approval. for example, more detailed studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process, but each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit and the potential delays to approval of the primary indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably foresee and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between speed, trial conduct and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which these challenges are foreseen and addressed could affect our future results. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 61% of our total 2013 revenues were derived from international operations, including 26% from the europe region and 21% from japan and the rest of asia region. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations can impact our results and financial guidance. for example, on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 of venezuelan currency to the u.s. dollar. we have experienced and will continue to experience ongoing adverse impacts to earnings as our revenues and expenses will be translated into u.s. dollars at a lower rate. we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the venezuelan currency or devaluations of any other currencies. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2013 financial report. those sections of our 2013 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. 28 many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets, including the full integration of emerging markets into each of our three new businesses the global innovative pharmaceutical business ; the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare business ; and the global established pharmaceutical business . however, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending, which, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact on us of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world, and the deteriorating finances of certain governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). see global economic conditions below. global economic conditions in addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment, which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the u.s., europe and japan, and in a number of emerging markets. we believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels, and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments to reduce their costs. challenging economic conditions in the u.s. also have increased the number of patients in the medicaid program (and the number will continue to grow as a result of the medicaid coverage expansion effective in some states in 2014 in accordance with the aca), under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. in addition, we continue to experience pricing pressure in various markets around the world, including in developed european markets, japan and in a number of emerging markets, with government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products and government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries. furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to lower prices for and restricted access to new medicines. the challenging global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. however, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. other potential impacts of these challenging economic conditions include declining sales; increased costs; changes in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of, or a lower rate of return on, our financial assets and pension plan investments, which may require us to increase our pension funding obligations; adverse government actions; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. 29 outsourcing we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, non-clinical research, safety services and other areas. in 2013, we continued to place the majority of our clinical trial execution services with two strategic clinical research organizations (cros) and we also utilized another cro to execute early phase development studies. service performance issues with these cros may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. outsourcing of services to third parties could also expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery, which may result in missed deadlines, supply disruptions, non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our results. we continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. these are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. if any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of the new system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply where we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations. difficulties of our wholesale distributors in 2013, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue (and 30% of our total u.s. revenue), and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 29% of our total revenue (and 73% of our total u.s. revenue). if one of our significant wholesale distributors should encounter financial or other difficulties, such distributor might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, and counterfeit goods. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the importation of medicines across borders; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only 30 minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the fda and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; and working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. no assurance can be given, however, that our efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions/intangible assets and goodwill growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our r&amp;d organization; (ii) our internal separation of our commercial operations into three new, global businesses; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives we may pursue in the future; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives we may pursue in the future. in addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets will ultimately yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charges may be significant. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive 31 verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the u.s. federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the medicaid drug rebate program, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2013 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. in connection with the resolution of certain u.s. government investigations concerning various products in september 2009, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of the inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services, which is effective through december 31, 2014. in connection with the resolution of our fcpa matters in august 2012, one of our subsidiaries entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (dpa) with the u.s. department of justice, which has a term of approximately two years. in the cia and dpa, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program and fda requirements, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption and other applicable laws. a material failure to comply with the cia or dpa could result in severe sanctions against us. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions. information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach in our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result 32 in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2013 financial report.risk factors 17 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. in addition, eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bristol-myers squibb company (bms). for additional information, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions section in our 2014 financial report. revenues from biopharmaceutical products contributed approximately 92% of our total revenues in 2014 , 93% of our total revenues in 2013 , and 94% of our total revenues in 2012 . we recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . these products represented 54% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2014, 51% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2013 and 50% of our revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2012. see item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2014 were $45.7 billion , a decrease of 5% compared to 2013 , reflecting a decrease in operational revenues of 3% and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 2% . geographically, in the u.s., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 8% in 2014 , compared to 2013 . in our international markets, revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 3% in 2014 , compared to 2013 , which primarily reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. during 2014 , international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented 62% of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to 61% in 2013 . for additional information, including a discussion of key operational revenue drivers, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical revenues revenues major biopharmaceutical products and biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions sections in our 2014 financial report. 3 consumer healthcare based on 2014 revenues, our consumer healthcare business is the fifth-largest branded multi-national, otc, healthcare products business in the world and produces two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands ( centrum and advil ) in the world. consumer healthcare revenues totaled $3.4 billion for 2014, an increase of 3% compared to 2013, reflecting operational revenue growth of 5% , partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 2% . the consumer healthcare business holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the u.s., china, canada, germany, italy and brazil. major categories and product lines in our consumer healthcare business include: dietary supplements: centrum brands (including centrum , centrum silver , centrum men's and women's , centrum specialist , centrum flavor burst , and centrum kids ), caltrate , and emergen-c ; pain management: advil brands (including advil , advil pm , advil liqui-gels , advil film coated , children's advil , infants' advil and advil migraine) , and thermacare ; gastrointestinal: nexium 24hr/nexium control ; respiratory: robitussin , advil cold &amp; sinus , advil congestion relief , and dimetapp ; and personal care: chapstick and preparation h. in august 2012, we entered into an agreement with astrazeneca plc (astrazeneca) for the exclusive, global, otc rights for nexium , a leading prescription drug currently approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. in december 2011, we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of ferrosan, a danish company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the nordic region and the emerging markets of russia and central and eastern europe. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2a. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, divestitures, and equity-method investments : acquisitions and note 2b. acquisitions, licensing agreements, collaborative arrangements, divestitures, and equity-method investments: licensing agreements in our 2014 financial report and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section in our 2014 financial report. for additional information regarding the revenues of our consumer healthcare business, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the analysis of operating segment information global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare operating segment section in our 2014 financial report. research and development innovation by our research and development (r&amp;d) operations is very important to our success. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. we spent $8.4 billion in 2014 , $6.7 billion in 2013 and $7.5 billion in 2012 on r&amp;d. biopharmaceutical r&amp;d we conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. we also seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements, acquisitions and other arrangements. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. according to the pharmaceutical benchmarking forum, out of 30 compounds entering preclinical development, only one is approved by a regulatory authority in a major market (u.s., the european union (eu) or japan). the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than 10 years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research. 4 as of year-end 2014, we had 298 projects in r&amp;d, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 86 programs are in phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. at year-end 2014, our phase 3 portfolio contained 23 programs. development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. while these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our r&amp;d operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering new indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section in our 2014 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to r&amp;d. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. see item 1a. risk factors competitive products below. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&amp;d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars. for additional information regarding our r&amp;d operations, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy research operations and costs and expenses research and development (r&amp;d) expenses description of research and development operations sections in our 2014 financial report. international operations we have significant operations outside the u.s. in 2014, for developed and emerging markets, these operations were managed through our three operating segments: gip, gep and voc. a significant change effected by our new structure is the full integration of emerging markets into each business. emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. in 2013, our pharmaceutical operations in emerging markets were managed through our former emerging markets business unit and our operations in developed markets were managed together with our u.s. operations through our other pharmaceutical business units. our consumer healthcare operations were managed worldwide in 2013. for additional information regarding our operating segments, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy section in our 2014 financial report and commercial operations above. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $30.5 billion accounted for 62% of our total revenues in 2014 . revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 13 , 12 and 14 countries outside the u.s. in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the u.s. is our largest national market, comprising 38% of total revenues in 2014 and 39% of total revenues in 2013 and 2012. japan is our second-largest national market, with approximately 9%, 10% and 12% of total revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2014 financial report, and the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in our 2014 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. these include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see item 1a. risk factors risks affecting international operations below. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints outside the united states below for a discussion of these matters. 5 depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2014 financial report, as well as the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2014 financial report. those sections of our 2014 financial report are incorporated by reference. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, and the managed care organizations (mcos) that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems, pharmacy benefit managers (pbms), health plans, employers and government agencies. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of prevnar 13 in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to individual provider offices, the centers for disease control and prevention and wholesalers. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and mco formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos. mcos use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we also work with mcos to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. during 2014, pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers in the u.s. were as follows: mckesson, inc. 13% of our total revenues (and 34% of our total u.s. revenues); cardinal health, inc. 10% of our total revenues (and 27% of our total u.s. revenues); and amerisourcebergen corporation 9% of our total revenues (and 24% of our total u.s. revenues). sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses. our global consumer healthcare business utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets. our consumer healthcare business's advertising and promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. our consumer healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the consumer healthcare business. patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can 6 vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration date listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year viagra 2012 (1) 2013 2013 (1) enbrel (2) n/a 2015 2015 celebrex 2014 (3) 2014 2019 zyvox 2015 2016 2019 lyrica 2018 2014 (4) 2022 bosulif 2019 2019 2019 chantix 2020 2021 2022 inlyta 2020 2025 2025 xeljanz 2020 n/a (5) 2025 sutent 2021 2021 2024 eliquis (6) 2023 2026 2026 ibrance 2023 n/a (7) n/a (7) prevnar 13/prevenar 13 2026 2026 (8) 2029 xalkori 2029 2027 2028 (1) in addition to the basic product patent covering viagra , which expired in 2012, viagra is covered by a u.s. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with revatio (which has the same active ingredient as viagra ), expires in 2020. however, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. will be allowed to launch a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017, or earlier under certain circumstances. the corresponding method-of-treatment patent covering viagra in japan expired in may 2014. (2) pfizer does not market enbrel in the u.s. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2014 financial report. in other markets, biosimilar competition will depend, to a significant extent, on the timing and implementation of regulations governing the development and approval of biosimilar products. (3) we obtained a reissue patent in the u.s. in march 2013 covering the approved uses of celebrex . the reissue patent expires in december 2015. this patent is presently the subject of litigation between pfizer and several generic companies. in december 2014, generic versions of celebrex became available pursuant to settlement agreements licensing the reissue patent to several of the generic manufacturers involved in the ongoing litigation. (4) for lyrica , regulatory exclusivity in the eu expired during 2014. (5) xeljanz is not approved in the eu. 7 (6) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. (7) ibrance is not approved in the eu or japan. (8) the eu patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 has been revoked following an opposition proceeding. this first instance decision will be appealed. there are other eu patents and pending applications covering the formulation and various aspects of the manufacturing process of prevenar 13 that remain in force. we co-promote aricept with eisai. aricept has experienced patent-based expirations in many major markets since 2010. for additional information, including a description of certain of our other co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights sections in our 2014 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. a number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. for example, in the u.s., we lost exclusivity for geodon in march 2012, revatio tablet in september 2012, rapamune in january 2014, detrol la in january 2014 and celebrex in december 2014. pursuant to terms of a settlement agreement, certain formulations of zyvox became subject to generic competition in the u.s. in january 2015. we expect certain other formulations of zyvox will become subject to generic competition in the u.s. in the first half of 2015. in most major european markets, we lost exclusivity for xalatan and xalacom in january 2012, detrol la in september 2012, viagra in june 2013, inspra in march 2014, lyrica in july 2014 and celebrex in november 2014. we lost exclusivity for lyrica in canada in february 2013. lipitor has lost exclusivity in all major markets and now faces multi-source generic competition in the u.s., europe, japan and australia. for additional information, including a further discussion of our products experiencing, or expected to experience in 2015, patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in various markets, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2014 financial report. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products, viagra , celebrex , sutent , epipen , toviaz and tygacil extended-release capsules . for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a1. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2014 financial report. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. biotechnology products our biotechnology products, including benefix , refacto , xyntha and enbrel (we market enbrel outside the u.s. and canada), may face competition in the future from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). in the u.s., such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin, which was approved under the u.s. federal food, drug and cosmetic act. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the heath care and education reconciliation act (commonly referred to as the affordable care act, or aca), a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. the regulatory implementation of these aca provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. however, the fda has begun to clarify its expectations for approval via the biosimilar pathway with the issuance of a number of draft guidance documents. in 2014, the fda issued draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars and reference product exclusivity for biologic products. over the next several years, the fda is expected to finalize these guidance documents and issue additional draft and final 8 guidance documents. the fda has also begun to accept biosimilar applications for review. see government regulation and price constraints biosimilars below for additional information on the aca's approval framework for biosimilars. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. in 2013, the european medicines agency (ema) approved the first biosimilar of a monoclonal antibody. in japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including the monoclonal antibody infliximab, pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars that reference our biotechnology products, our products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. however, biosimilar manufacturing is complex and biosimilars are not generic versions of the reference products. therefore, at least initially upon approval of a biosimilar competitor, biosimilar competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant as generic competition with respect to small molecule drugs. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop biosimilar medicines. as such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the u.s. see item 1a. risk factors biotechnology products below. we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. we also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons' efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical 9 education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. our consumer healthcare business faces competition from otc business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including, among others, the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors' promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors' introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to otc switches). our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of next generation vaccines. for example, prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent or additional valent next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to the expiration of its patents. managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 281 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see government regulation and price constraints in the united states below), both the marketing of prescription drugs to consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continue to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. in addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, mcos transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. this financial disincentive is a tool for mcos to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the mcos. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. 10 generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. unlike us, generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. this means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. in a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. in the u.s., pfizer's greenstone subsidiary and pfizer injectables sell generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. no serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2014, and none are expected in 2015. we have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements where there have been short-term imbalances between supply and demand, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid. government regulation and price constraints in the united states general. pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive laws and regulations by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. of particular importance in the u.s. is the fda, which has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. the fda also regulates our consumer healthcare products. other federal agencies, including the u.s. drug enforcement administration, also regulate some of our products. before any of our biopharmaceutical products may be marketed in the u.s., the fda needs to approve a new drug application or biologics license application for that product. the steps required before the fda will approve an application include multiple stages of clinical trials conducted by the study sponsor, sponsor submission of the application to the fda for review, the fda's review of the data to assess the drug's safety and effectiveness, and the fda's inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured. the marketing practices of all u.s. pharmaceutical companies are subject to federal and state healthcare laws that are intended to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. the office of inspector general (oig) of the department of health and human services (hhs) oversees compliance with applicable federal healthcare laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute, which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products reimbursed under a federal healthcare program, and false claim laws. the federal trade commission also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including otc drugs and dietary supplements. many of our activities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the sec. additionally, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries 11 have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. our business has been and will continue to be subject to these and various other u.s. laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various governmental bodies. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2014 financial report. such actions may involve product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. healthcare reform. in march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. the principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry provide for the following: a minimum rebate of 23.1% on branded prescription drugs sold to medicaid beneficiaries; extension of medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain medicaid managed care organizations; discounts on branded prescription drug sales to medicare part d participants who are in the medicare coverage gap ; and a fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective january 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018). the aca included a coverage expansion that took effect in 2014. health insurance exchanges were created by the aca to provide an opportunity for individuals without access to employer or other government sponsored coverage to purchase insurance from private health plans offering coverage compliant with aca mandated provisions. states could choose to operate the health insurance exchange with a federal grant, or defer operations to the federal government. newly eligible patients enrolled either in medicaid or in a health insurance exchange plan. the congressional budget office estimated that approximately 7 million americans gained medicaid coverage, and hhs reported that 6.7 million americans were ultimately enrolled in health insurance exchange plans in 2014. the aca specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the health insurance exchanges, including prescription drugs. in general, health plans in the health insurance exchange offer benefits that are more restrictive than the typical large employer, but more comprehensive than most catastrophic health insurance plans and some other limited policies available in the individual insurance marketplace. this means that there are high deductibles and co-pays, increased use of co-insurance, fewer medicines on formularies and restricted networks of physicians and hospitals. because of these factors, health insurance exchange enrollment has had only a negligible impact on pfizer's 2014 revenues. the coverage expansion included funding for increased medicaid enrollment. twenty-seven states and the district of columbia opted to expand medicaid eligibility in 2014. because of the substantial mandatory rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies to the medicaid program, and the formulary restrictions that limit access to brand name drugs in many states, the medicaid expansion has also had only a negligible impact on pfizer's 2014 revenues. changes in disclosure of relationships with u.s. physicians and teaching hospitals . the aca requires that biopharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers record transfers of value made to licensed u.s. physicians and teaching hospitals and to initially disclose such data to hhs by march 2014. information provided by companies was aggregated and posted on the open payments website in september 2014, which is managed by the centers for medicare and medicaid services, the agency responsible for implementing disclosure provisions of the aca. in addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements or excludes information in such reports. increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators, industry critics and media will likely draw attention to our collaborations with reported entities and will importantly provide opportunities to underscore the critical nature of our collaborations for developing new medicines and exchanging scientific information. this national payment transparency effort, coupled with industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (such as the pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of america (phrma) code on interactions with healthcare professionals and phrma guiding principles direct to consumer advertisements about prescription medicines ) and rigorous internal training and compliance efforts, will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications. 12 biosimilars. the aca also created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the fda to address such key topics as: the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming convention for biosimilars; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data using a non-u.s.-licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. in february 2012, the fda released three draft guidance documents, in which it clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-u.s.-licensed comparator in certain studies to demonstrate biosimilarity to a u.s.-licensed reference product. in 2014, the fda issued draft guidance on clinical pharmacology for biosimilars and reference product exclusivity for biologic products. over the next several years, the fda is expected to finalize these guidance documents and issue additional draft and final documents impacting biosimilars. further clarity may also be provided as the fda begins to review biosimilar applications, the first four of which were filed by other companies pursuant to the aca pathway in 2014. medicaid and related matters. the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines in medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products in certain states. access in the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. given certain states' current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. pfizer must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by state medicaid agencies and certain other federal and state agencies and programs. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section in our 2014 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1g. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues and accounts receivable in our 2014 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. sustainable growth rate replacement . the medicare physician payment formula known as the sustainable growth rate (sgr) is routinely overridden by congressional action because it would lead to dramatic decreases in physician payment. the current legislative relief expires in march 2015. congress issued a bi-partisan proposal to repeal the sgr and replace it with a new payment model. this form of sgr replacement is estimated by the congressional budget office to cost the federal government approximately $144 billion over 10 years. the source of those funds has yet to be determined, but could include additional taxes on and/or rebate requirements applicable to the pharmaceutical industry, including pfizer. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. pricing and reimbursement . in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. in particular, the eu does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, so we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region. this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries and some third-party trade in our products between countries. the practice of many countries linking their regulated medicine prices to those of other countries, i.e., international reference pricing (irp), adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations have also resulted from exchange rate fluctuations that are exacerbated by irp systems. the 13 downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to irp policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries and ongoing exchange rate fluctuations. new drug approvals and pharmacovigilance. in the eu, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure/decentralized procedure or eu commission/ema centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway and iceland. the use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country. health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., similar to the authority of the fda or the ema) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. many authorities also require local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. these requirements delay marketing authorization in those countries relative to the u.s. and europe. china's regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with u.s. or other international standards. as a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in china two to five years after first marketing in the u.s. and europe. in 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation came into force in the eu. key changes include the establishment of a new pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee within the ema, with responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. it also introduces the possibility for regulators to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. outside developed markets such as the eu and japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are typically less extensive. clinical trials regulation . the new eu regulation on clinical trials was published in may 2014, and is expected to come into force, at the earliest, in may 2016. this new regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the eu, particularly the processes for submission and approval of clinical trial applications, which have been criticized as harming europe's competitiveness in clinical r&amp;d of new medicines. in line with the pro-transparency policy of the eu institutions, the new regulation will also require increased public posting of clinical trial results. clinical trial data sharing . in october 2014, the ema adopted its policy on the publication of clinical data for medicinal products for human use, which became effective on january 1, 2015. under this policy, the ema will, for the first time, proactively publish clinical data from application dossiers for new marketing authorizations, subject to limited exceptions for commercially confidential information and the exclusion of any protected personal data. this clinical data can be accessed via the ema's website, subject to the acceptance of terms of use, which also includes disclosure that the data will be used only for non-commercial research purposes. healthcare professional transparency and disclosures. in 2013, the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations (efpia) released its disclosure code of transfers of value to healthcare professionals and organizations. the code requires all members of efpia, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations beginning in 2016, covering the relevant transfers in 2015. each member company will be required to document and disclose: (i) the names of healthcare professionals and associations that have received payments or other transfers of value and (ii) the amounts or value transferred, and the type of relationship. intellectual property the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2021 for least-developed countries. while we still face enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, a number of countries have made improvements. we have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those countries. we include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. while the global intellectual property environment has improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. there is considerable political pressure to weaken 14 existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries. canada's intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity (eight years), but it lacks the predictability and stability that comparable countries provide. through intense negotiations as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement, canadian authorities committed to introduce a right of appeal, a form of patent term restoration and to elevate the current data protection to a treaty obligation, further aligning its intellectual property regime to the eu. canada also joined the ongoing negotiations of the trans-pacific trade partnership (tpp), and the tpp negotiations could further pressure canada to enhance its intellectual property regime. the patent utility doctrine developed by the canadian courts remains an important concern which is currently not being addressed by the canadian government. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established r&amp;d centers in china due to increased confidence in china's intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. department of commerce priority watch list for 2013. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., national health surveillance agency (anvisa) in brazil), restrictive patentability rules and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. in india, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings, and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. india maintains a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delays the granting of patents and adds an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents. indian law includes special restrictions on the types of pharmaceutical inventions that may be patented which may limit our ability to protect our products. recent use by the indian government of compulsory licensing and patent revocation mechanisms heightens the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population, such as infectious diseases, cancer and diabetes. in september 2012, pfizer's patent covering sutent was revoked by the indian patent office and other challenges against pfizer patents are ongoing. in south korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system were finalized and are in the process of being implemented as part of the united states-korea free trade agreement in 2012. the korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2014 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2014 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $19 million; and other environment-related expenses $160 million. 15 while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with laws related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including potential physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to more frequent and severe weather events and water availability. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have reviewed the potential for these risks and have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not believe these risks are material to pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. tax matters in our 2014 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2014, we employed approximately 78,300 people in our operations throughout the world. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224 (the executive orders). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2014, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, medical products and consumer products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran. we ship pfizer products to iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2014 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra. 16 item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2014 form 10-k and in our 2014 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management's plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, may, could, likely, ongoing, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, target, forecast, goal, objective, aim and other words and terms of similar meaning, or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating or financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our recently-announced proposed acquisition of hospira, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2015 section in our 2014 financial report; the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives section in our 2014 financial report and notes to consolidated financial statements notes 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost reduction/productivity initiatives; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2014 financial report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company ' pension and postretirement plans during 2015 set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2014 financial report and in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2014 financial report. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. pricing pressures and government regulation u.s. and international governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our biopharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures have increased as a result of the 2003 medicare modernization act (2003 mma) and the aca due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 mma or the aca were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. furthermore, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. 17 some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including, among others, changes in patent laws, the importation of drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of foreign countries, restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. in addition, pricing pressures may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, and we have seen government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets, particularly under recent global economic pressures. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain timely or adequate government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. managed care trends consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. in addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. this cost shifting has given consumers greater control of medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. u.s. healthcare reform/healthcare legislation the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and its provisions become effective on various dates, with the medicaid and health insurance exchange coverage expansion effective in 2014. we expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the aca over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges regulatory environment/pricing and access u.s. healthcare legislation section in our 2014 financial report and in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints in the united states . furthermore, the independent payment advisory board (ipab), which was created by the aca to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products, though the ipab has not yet been named and the congressional budget office does not expect that the threshold for ipab recommendations will be exceeded in the near future. moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new regulations and programs. we also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the aca. one major provision of the aca is currently under review by the supreme court of the united states (scotus), which has agreed to hear a case known as king v. burwell during the 2015 session. the case challenges the extension of premium subsidies to health insurance policies purchased through federally-facilitated health insurance exchanges, arguing that subsidies must be limited to state-operated health insurance exchanges. if decided in favor of the plaintiffs, this case could make it more difficult for uninsured individuals in states that do not operate a health insurance exchange to purchase coverage and otherwise significantly affect implementation of the aca, in a manner that results in less than projected numbers of newly insured individuals. we expect that a decision by scotus in this case would have a negligible impact on our revenues, given that the state-operated health 18 insurance exchanges and the federally-facilitated health insurance exchanges are projected to account for minimal new pfizer revenue, even with fully available subsidies for the reasons discussed in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints in the united states . u.s. deficit-reduction actions any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. the date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. a number of our current products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. also, the patents covering several of our medicines, including viagra , celebrex , sutent , epipen , toviaz and tygacil extended-release capsules in the u.s. are being challenged by generic manufacturers. our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering several of their products that may impact our licenses or co-promotion rights to such products. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, which can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 10 biopharmaceutical products in 2014: lyrica , the prevnar family of products, enbrel , celebrex , lipitor , viagra , zyvox , sutent , norvasc and the premarin family of products. those products accounted for 54% of our total biopharmaceutical revenues in 2014. if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. for example, on december 10, 2014, generic versions of celebrex became available pursuant to settlement agreements licensing the reissue patent to several generic manufacturers. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. further, our alliance revenues have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. for example, our collaboration with boehringer ingelheim for spiriva has expired in major markets (u.s., the eu, canada and australia), and is expiring in other markets through 2016; the co-promotion term of our u.s. and canada collaboration agreement with amgen inc. (amgen) for enbrel expired in october 2013 (our exclusive rights to enbrel outside the u.s. and canada are not affected by the expiration of the co-promotion term of the collaboration agreement with amgen); and our collaboration agreement with emd serono inc. to co-promote rebif in the u.s. will expire at the end of 2015. see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights and analysis of the consolidated 19 statements of income biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions sections in our 2014 financial report for additional information on the expirations of these agreements. research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, and the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for the future and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a corresponding increase in revenues. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. there can be no assurance that these strategies will deliver the desired result, which could affect profitability in the future. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable clinical trial results. there can be no assurance regarding our ability to meet anticipated clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission dates, and launch dates for product candidates, or as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products, which will depend on the assessment by regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile reflected by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products, and there is no assurance that any of our late stage pipeline products will receive regulatory approval and/or be commercially successful or that recently approved products will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. in addition, there are risks associated with interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. there are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect the realization of r&amp;d and product-related, forward-looking statements. further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. 20 in addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance, in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase 4 trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. regulatory agencies in countries outside the u.s. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall. patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinctive patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in a policy of routine compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. in countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches to challenge our patent rights. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. 21 a properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. we are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies but the patent granting process is imperfect. accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. biotechnology products abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. the expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. we are developing biosimilar medicines. the developing pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products in the u.s. could diminish the value of our past and future investments in biosimilars. other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities once the drug receives regulatory approval. for example, more detailed studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process, but each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit and the potential delays to approval of the primary indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably foresee and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which these challenges are foreseen and addressed could affect our future results. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 62% of our total 2014 revenues were derived from international operations, including 27% from europe and 21% from japan and the rest of asia. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations can impact our results and financial guidance. for example, in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 of venezuelan currency to the u.s. dollar. see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources global economic conditions venezuela operations section in our 2014 financial report for more information. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2014 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2014 22 financial report and the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section in our 2014 financial report. those sections of our 2014 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets, including the full integration of emerging markets into each of our three operating segments the global innovative pharmaceutical segment ; the global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare segment ; and the global established pharmaceutical segment . however, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending, which, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has had limited impact on pfizer to date, a number of factors may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future given our growing specialty business portfolio. these include the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world, u.s. pbms seeking to negotiate greater discounts, deteriorating finances of certain governments and the uptake of biosimilars as they become available. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). see the global economic environment below. the global economic environment in addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. we believe that patients, who are experiencing increases in co-pays and restrictions on access to medicines as payers seek to control costs, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. we are exposed to negative pricing pressure in various markets around the world. the u.s. has highly competitive insurance markets. europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets have government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to restricted access to and lower prices for new medicines. the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. however, there 23 can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. other potential impacts of variations in the economic cycle include declining sales; increased costs; changes in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of, or a lower rate of return on, our financial assets and pension plan investments, which may require us to increase our pension funding obligations; adverse government actions; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. outsourcing we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, non-clinical research, safety services and other areas. in 2014, we continued to place the majority of our clinical trial execution services with two strategic clinical research organizations (cros) and we also utilized another cro to execute early phase development studies. service performance issues with these cros may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. outsourcing of services to third parties could also expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery, which may result in missed deadlines, supply disruptions, non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our results. we continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. these are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. if any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of the new system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. collaborations and other relationships with third parties we depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. to achieve expected longer term benefits, substantial upfront payments in such transactions may negatively impact our reported earnings. we rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations. failure by one or more of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory or other obligations to pfizer, or any disruption in the relationships between pfizer and these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval or commercialization of our products and product candidates and could also result in non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply where we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt or increase enforcement efforts of new anti-bribery laws and regulations. difficulties of our wholesale distributors in 2014, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 13% of our total revenue (and 34% of our total u.s. revenue), and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 32% of our total revenue (and 84% of our total u.s. revenue). if one of our significant wholesale distributors should encounter financial or other difficulties, such distributor might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable 24 and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, and counterfeit goods. regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable current good manufacturing practices requirements. failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the importation of medicines across borders; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the fda and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; working diligently to raise public awareness about the dangers of counterfeit medicines; and working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. no assurance can be given, however, that our efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions/intangible assets and goodwill growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our r&amp;d organization; (ii) our internal separation of our commercial operations into our new operating structure; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives; (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives; and (v) our proposed acquisition of hospira. in addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets will ultimately yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is 25 often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charges may be significant. our other intangible assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the u.s. federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the medicaid drug rebate program, the fcpa and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2014 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. in connection with the resolution of certain u.s. government investigations concerning various products in september 2009, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of inspector general (oig). while the compliance obligations expired on december 31, 2014, certain reporting requirements with respect to those compliance obligations continue into 2015 and a material failure to comply with the cia through the end of its term could result in severe sanctions against us pursuant to the cia penalty provisions. these penalty provisions will expire once the oig officially notifies pfizer that its final report to the oig is complete and that the oig has no further questions. the deferred prosecution agreement, which one of our subsidiaries entered into with the u.s. department of justice in august 2012 and in connection with the resolution of foreign corrupt practices act matters, also expired in 2014. claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. 26 business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section in our 2014 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions (including the hospira acquisition) in the anticipated timeframe or at all, and integrate acquisitions. further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. as a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. hospira acquisition we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed acquisition. the success of our proposed acquisition of hospira will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our businesses. the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the proposed acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. the integration process may, for each company, result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. if the proposed acquisition is not completed, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected. 27 the required shareholder and regulatory approvals may not be obtained or the regulatory approvals may contain materially burdensome conditions that could have an adverse effect on us. completion of the proposed acquisition is conditioned upon the approval of hospira's shareholders and the receipt of certain governmental approvals, including, without limitation, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, as well as the receipt of all regulatory clearances under the antitrust laws of several other jurisdictions, including the eu. although pfizer and hospira have agreed in the merger agreement to use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the requisite shareholder and governmental approvals, there can be no assurance that these approvals will be obtained and that the other conditions to closing will be satisfied. in addition, the governmental authorities from which the regulatory approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the proposed acquisition or require changes to the terms of the proposed acquisition. under the terms of the merger agreement, we are required, if necessary to receive antitrust approval, to make divestitures of assets so long as such divestitures would not result in the sale of assets of either us or hospira that generated revenue in excess of $450 million during the twelve months ended september 30, 2014. failure to complete the proposed acquisition could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. the market value of our common stock may be adversely affected as a result of financial statement charges and cash costs associated with the proposed transaction. we could encounter transaction- and integration-related costs or other factors, such as the failure to realize benefits anticipated from the proposed transaction, which could negatively impact the projected financial consequences of the proposed transaction. we expect to account for the proposed merger using the acquisition method of accounting, which will result in charges to our earnings that could adversely affect our reported operating results. under this method, we will allocate the total purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from hospira based on their fair values as of the date of the completion of the proposed merger, and record any excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. for certain tangible and intangible assets, reevaluating fair value as of the completion date of the proposed merger will result in pfizer incurring additional depreciation and/or amortization expense that exceed the combined amounts recorded by pfizer and hospira prior to the proposed merger. this increased expense will be recorded by us over the useful lives of the underlying assets. in addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets were to become impaired, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the integration process. the substantial majority of such expenses will be comprised of transaction costs, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs, although certain unanticipated costs may be incurred as well, such as potential costs related to litigation seeking to prevent the proposed acquisition. we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will allow us to more than offset incremental transaction- and integration-related costs over time, but this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2014 financial report.risk factors 20 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. geographic revenues for innovative products* * dev int'l = developed markets except u.s.; em mkts = emerging markets for additional information regarding the revenues of our innovative products business, including revenues of major innovative products, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues major products and revenues selected product descriptions sections in our 2015 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our innovative products business, see the analysis of operating segment information global innovative pharmaceutical operating segment and global vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare operating segment sections of our 2015 financial report. the innovative products business is composed of the gip and voc segments. a discussion of the key products within these segments, or a reference to such discussion in the 2015 financial report, is included below. global innovative products for a discussion of certain of our key gip products, including lyrica (outside all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia countries), enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada), viagra (u.s. and canada), benefix , chantix/champix , refacto af/xyntha , xeljanz and eliquis (jointly developed and commercialized with bms), see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2015 financial report. vaccines for a discussion of certain of our key vaccine products, including prevnar/prevenar 13 , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2015 financial report. oncology for a discussion of certain of our key oncology products, including sutent, ibrance, xalkori and inlyta , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2015 financial report. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 4 consumer healthcare according to euromonitor international's retail sales data, in 2015 , pfizer's consumer healthcare business was the fourth-largest branded multi-national, otc consumer healthcare business in the world and produced two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands ( centrum and advil ) in the world. major categories and product lines in our consumer healthcare business include: dietary supplements : centrum brands (including centrum , centrum silver , centrum men's and women's , centrum vitamints , centrum specialist , centrum flavor burst and centrum kids ), caltrate and emergen-c ; pain management : advil brands (including advil , advil pm , advil liqui-gels , advil film coated , children's advil , infants' advil and advil migraine) and thermacare ; gastrointestinal : nexium 24hr/nexium control and preparation h ; and respiratory and personal care : robitussin , advil cold &amp; sinus , advil sinus congestion relief &amp; pain, dimetapp and chapstick . established products we recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of three established products in 2015 ( lipitor , lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia) and the premarin family of products) and six established products in 2014 and 2013 ( celebrex , lipitor , lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia), zyvox , norvasc and the premarin family of products). see item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. geographic revenues for established products* * dev int'l = developed markets except u.s.; em mkts = emerging markets for additional information regarding the revenues of our established products business, including revenues of major established products, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues major products and revenues selected product descriptions sections in our 2015 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our established products business, see the analysis of operating segment information global established pharmaceutical operating segment section of our 2015 financial report. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 5 global established products the product categories in our global established products segment include: legacy established products : includes products that have lost patent protection (excluding sterile injectable pharmaceuticals and peri-loe products); peri-loe products : includes products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. these products primarily include celebrex , zyvox and revatio in most developed markets, lyrica in the eu, pristiq in the u.s. and inspra in the eu; sterile injectable pharmaceuticals : includes generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding peri-loe products); infusion systems : includes medication management systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as i.v. infusion products, including large volume i.v. solutions and their associated administration sets; biosimilars : includes inflectra (biosimilar infliximab) in canada, mexico, australia and certain european markets, nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) in australia and certain european and asian markets and retacrit (biosimilar epoetin) in certain european markets; and other established products : includes legacy hospira's one-to-one contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemical sales organizations. for a discussion of certain of our key gep products, including lipitor , lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia), the premarin family of products, norvasc , zyvox , celebrex and pristiq , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2015 financial report. alliance revenues we are party to collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, such as enbrel (in the u.s. and canada), spiriva and rebif , each of which has expired or will expire in 2016 in certain markets. in addition, eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. in april 2015, we signed an agreement with bms to transfer full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets to us, beginning in the third quarter of 2015. for additional information, including a description of certain of these collaboration and co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights sections in our 2015 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. research and development innovation by our r&amp;d organization is very important to our success. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. we conduct r&amp;d internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. our wrd organization is generally responsible for research projects until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the appropriate business unit for possible clinical and commercial development. the wrd organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&amp;d projects. wrd is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 6 our r&amp;d primarily focuses on six high-priority areas that have a mix of small molecules and large molecules immunology and inflammation; cardiovascular and metabolic diseases; oncology; vaccines; neuroscience and pain; and rare diseases. another area of focus is biosimilars. with the acquisition of hospira, we have expanded our biosimilars pipeline and added r&amp;d capabilities for sterile injectables and infusion systems. we also seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations and alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. collaboration, alliance and license agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost, to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. according to the pharmaceutical benchmarking forum, out of 20 compounds entering preclinical development, only one is approved by a regulatory authority in a major market (u.s., the eu or japan). the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research. as of february 2, 2016, we had the following number of projects in various stages of r&amp;d: development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. while these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our r&amp;d efforts seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering potential new indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section in our 2015 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to r&amp;d. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. in addition, several of our competitors operate without large r&amp;d expenses and make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. for additional information, see the competition and item 1a. risk factors competitive products sections below. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&amp;d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. for additional information regarding our r&amp;d operations, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy research operations and costs and expenses research and development (r&amp;d) expenses description of research and development operations sections in our 2015 financial report. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 7 international operations we have significant operations outside the u.s. since 2014, operations in developed and emerging markets have been managed through our three operating segments: gip, gep and voc. emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $27.1 billion accounted for 56% of our total revenues in 2015 . japan is our largest national market outside the u.s. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2015 financial report, and the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in our 2015 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. revenues by national market our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. these include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see item 1a. risk factors risks affecting international operations below. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints outside the united states below for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2015 financial report, as well as the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2015 financial report. those sections of our 2015 financial report are incorporated by reference. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and pharmacists; mcos that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems, pbms and health plans; and employers and government agencies who hire mcos to provide health benefits to their employees. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. for our infusion systems business, we promote directly to nurses, physicians, pharmacists, biomedical engineers, and their respective representatives. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 8 our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of our vaccines products in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to individual provider offices, the centers for disease control and prevention and wholesalers. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and mco formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos. mcos use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we also work with mcos to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. in 2015, our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 34% of our total revenues (and 74% of our total u.s. revenues). % of 2015 total revenues and u.s. revenues from major biopharmaceutical wholesalers and other customers our global consumer healthcare business uses its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets. the advertising and promotions for our consumer healthcare business are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. our consumer healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the consumer healthcare business. patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 9 drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year viagra 2012 (1) 2013 2013 (1) enbrel n/a (2) 2015 2015 celebrex 2014 (3) 2014 (3) 2019 zyvox 2015 2016 2019 lyrica 2018 2014 (4) 2022 chantix 2020 2021 2022 inlyta 2020 2025 2025 xeljanz 2020 n/a (5) 2025 sutent 2021 2021 2024 eliquis (6) 2023 2026 2026 ibrance 2023 n/a (7) n/a (7) prevnar 13/prevenar 13 2026 2026 (8) 2029 xalkori 2029 2027 2028 (1) in addition to the basic product patent covering viagra , which expired in 2012, viagra is covered by a u.s. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with revatio (which has the same active ingredient as viagra ), expires in 2020. however, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. will be allowed to launch a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017, or earlier under certain circumstances. the corresponding method-of-treatment patent covering viagra in japan expired in may 2014. (2) pfizer markets enbrel outside the u.s. and canada. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2015 financial report. in january 2016, the european commission approved an etanercept biosimilar referencing enbrel. (3) in december 2014, generic versions of celebrex became available pursuant to settlement agreements with several generic manufacturers. (4) for lyrica , regulatory exclusivity in the eu expired in july 2014. (5) xeljanz is not approved in the eu. (6) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. (7) ibrance is awaiting marketing authorization in the eu and japan. (8) the eu patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 has been revoked following an opposition proceeding. this first instance decision has been appealed. there are other eu patents and pending applications covering the formulation and various aspects of the manufacturing process of prevenar 13 that remain in force. a number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. for additional information, including a description of certain of our co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, and a further discussion of our products experiencing, or expected to experience in 2016, patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2015 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products, sutent , epipen , toviaz , tygacil extended-release capsules and precedex premix . for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a1. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2015 financial report. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 10 biotechnology products our biotechnology products, including benefix , refacto , xyntha and enbrel (we market enbrel outside the u.s. and canada), may face competition in the future from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). in the u.s., such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin , which was approved under the ffdca. biosimilars are versions of biologic medicines that have been developed and proven to be similar to the original biologic in terms of safety and efficacy and to have no clinically meaningful differences. biosimilars have the potential to offer high-quality, lower-cost alternatives to biologic medicines. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage in 2010 of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. the regulatory implementation of these aca provisions is ongoing, and the fda has issued draft guidance on subjects such as nonproprietary naming of biologic products and reference product exclusivity, and final guidance on a number of subjects such as scientific considerations in demonstrating biosimilarity. moreover, in 2015, the fda approved the first biosimilar and currently has several other biosimilar applications under review. see government regulation and price constraints biosimilar regulation below for additional information on the aca's approval framework for biosimilars. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. in 2013, the ema approved the first biosimilar of a monoclonal antibody. in japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including our monoclonal antibody infliximab, pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars that reference our biotechnology products, our products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. however, biosimilar manufacturing is complex. at least initially upon approval of a biosimilar competitor, biosimilar competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant as generic competition with respect to small molecule drugs. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop biosimilar medicines. as such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the u.s. see item 1a. risk factors biotechnology products below. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products. likewise, as we develop and manufacture biosimilars and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. we also seek to continually pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 11 enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons' efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. our consumer healthcare business faces competition from otc business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, and retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors' promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors' introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to otc switches). our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of alternative or next generation vaccines. for example, prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent or additional valent next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to the expiration of its patents, which may adversely affect our future results. our generics and biosimilars businesses compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generics and biosimilars manufacturers. in the u.s., pfizer's greenstone subsidiary and pfizer injectables team sell generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate. additionally, as a result of the hospira acquisition, pfizer also sells generic versions of sterile injectable products as well as biosimilars globally. we seek to maximize the opportunity to establish a first-to-market or early market position for our generic injectable drugs and biosimilars, as a first-to-market position provides customers a lower-cost alternative immediately when available and also may provide us with a period of exclusivity as the only generic or biosimilar provider. our infusion systems business faces competition from companies that manufacture and distribute similar products to our infusion systems. for our infusion systems business, we seek to differentiate our products through technological innovation and an integrated approach to drug delivery. managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 283 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see government regulation and price constraints in the united states below), the marketing of prescription drugs to both consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continues to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. in addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, mcos transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. this financial disincentive is a tool for mcos to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the mcos. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 12 universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. however, increasingly our branded products are being placed on the higher tiers or in a non-preferred status. mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that our branded products face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. unlike us, generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic competitors do not generally need to conduct clinical trials and can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. in a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. no serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2015 , and none are expected in 2016 . we have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements where there have been short-term imbalances between supply and demand, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid. government regulation and price constraints pharmaceutical and medical device companies are subject to extensive laws and regulations by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. certain laws and regulations that govern pfizer's business are discussed below. general . our business has been and will continue to be subject to numerous laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by various governmental bodies. for additional information on these proceedings and actions, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings in our 2015 financial report. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, warning letters and product recalls or seizures, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from such proceedings and actions. in the united states drug regulation . in the u.s., biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulations by the fda, including regulations that govern the testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling and storage of our products, record keeping, advertising and promotion. our products are also subject to post-market surveillance under the ffdca and its implementing regulations with respect to drugs, as well as the public health service act and its implementing regulations with respect to biologics. the fda also regulates our consumer healthcare products. other u.s. federal agencies, including the dea, also regulate certain of our products. the ftc has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including otc drugs and dietary supplements. many of our activities also are subject to the jurisdiction of the sec. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 13 before a new biopharmaceutical product may be marketed in the u.s., the fda must approve an nda for a new drug or a bla for a biologic. the steps required before the fda will approve an nda or bla generally include preclinical studies followed by multiple stages of clinical trials conducted by the study sponsor; sponsor submission of the application to the fda for review; the fda's review of the data to assess the drug's safety and effectiveness; and the fda's inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured. before a generic drug may be marketed in the u.s., the fda must approve an anda. the anda review process typically does not require new preclinical and clinical studies, because it relies on the studies establishing safety and efficacy conducted for the referenced drug previously approved through the nda process. the anda process, however, does require the sponsor to conduct one or more bioequivalence studies to show that the anda drug is bioequivalent to the previously approved referenced brand drug, submission of an application to the fda for review, and the fda's inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured. as a condition of product approval, the fda may require a sponsor to conduct post-marketing clinical studies, known as phase 4 studies, and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of the approved product. the fda may limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-market studies and programs. any modifications to a drug or biologic, including new indications or changes to labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, may require the submission and approval of a new or supplemental nda or bla before the modification can be implemented, which may require that we develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. our ongoing manufacture and distribution of drugs and biologics is subject to continuing regulation by the fda, including recordkeeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences associated with the product, and adherence to cgmps, which regulate all aspects of the manufacturing process. we are also subject to numerous regulatory requirements relating to the advertising and promotion of drugs and biologics, including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising. failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and marketing of our products may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. biosimilar regulation. the aca created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation and, in 2015, approved the first biosimilar. through that approval and the issuance of draft and final guidance, the fda has begun to address open questions about the naming convention for biosimilars and the use of data from a non-u.s.-licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. over the next several years, the fda is expected to issue additional draft and final guidance documents impacting biosimilars. device regulation . in the u.s., the fda regulates medical devices under the authority of the ffdca and its regulations. the fda classifies u.s. medical devices into one of three classes (class i, ii or iii) based on the statutory framework described in the ffdca. our medical device business includes class i and ii devices, which are reviewed by the fda under the 510(k) process. during the 510(k) process, the fda reviews a premarket notification and determines whether or not a proposed device is substantially equivalent to predicate devices. if the intended use and technological characteristics are comparable to a predicate device, the device may be cleared for marketing. if the device has the same intended use as a predicate device and different technological characteristics, but data is submitted to the fda showing that the device is at least as safe and effective as the legally marketed device, it may also be cleared for marketing. in reviewing a premarket notification, the fda may request additional information, including clinical data. after a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require premarket approval. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the agency can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance, the agency may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or premarket approval. the fda can also require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or premarket approval is obtained. additionally, the manufacturer may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. postmarket device regulation. the medical devices that we manufacture and distribute are subject to continuing regulation by the fda and other regulatory authorities. the fda reviews design, manufacturing, and distribution practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers' required reports of adverse experience and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. among other fda requirements, we must comply with fda regulations relating to cgmps. these regulations govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. we must also comply with medical devices reporting which requires us to report to the fda any incident in any of our products that may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or required an unnecessary intervention for a patient, or in which any of our products malfunctioned and, if such malfunction were to recur, would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. labeling, advertising, and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the fda and, in certain circumstances, by the ftc. current fda enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. we are subject to routine inspection by the fda pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 14 and other regulatory authorities for compliance with quality system regulation and medical devices reporting requirements, as well as other applicable regulations. if the fda were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the fda could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. the fda may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal fines and penalties against our officers, employees, or us. the fda may also recommend prosecution to the u.s. department of justice. sales and marketing . the marketing practices of u.s. biopharmaceutical and medical device companies are generally subject to various federal and state healthcare laws that are intended to prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. these laws include anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a biopharmaceutical or medical device company from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration to generate business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular product. false claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for reimbursed drugs or services to third-party payers (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent. although the specific provisions of these laws vary, their scope is generally broad and there may not be regulations, guidance or court decisions that apply the laws to any particular industry practices, including the marketing practices of pharmaceutical and medical device companies. violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and/or exclusion from federal health care programs (including medicare and medicaid). the federal government and various states have also enacted laws to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical or medical device companies. the laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers; require disclosure to the federal or state government and public of such interactions; and/or require the adoption of compliance standards or programs. many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our activities could be subject to the penalties under the pertinent laws and regulations. pricing and reimbursement . pricing for our pharmaceutical products depends in part on government regulation. pfizer must offer discounted pricing or rebates on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program, the federal ceiling price drug pricing program, the 340b drug pricing program and the medicare part d program. pfizer must also report specific prices to government agencies under healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program and medicare part b. the calculations necessary to determine the prices reported are complex and the failure to report prices accurately may expose pfizer to penalties. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section in our 2015 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1g. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues and trade accounts receivable in our 2015 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. government and private third-party payers routinely seek to manage utilization and control the costs of our products. for example, the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain pharmaceutical products under medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products in certain states. as another example, access to our products under the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. given certain states' current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. healthcare reform. the u.s. and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to regulate the healthcare industry. in march 2010, the u.s. congress enacted the aca, which included changes that significantly affected the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, such as: increasing drug rebates paid to state medicaid programs under the medicaid drug rebate program for brand name and generic prescription drugs and extending those rebates to medicaid managed care; requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide discounts on brand name prescription drugs sold to medicare beneficiaries whose prescription drug costs cause the beneficiaries to be subject to the medicare part d coverage gap; imposing an annual fee on manufacturers and importers of brand name prescription drugs reimbursed under certain government programs, including medicare and medicaid; and imposing an annual excise tax on manufacturers and importers of medical devices offered for sale in the u.s. the aca included provisions designed to increase the number of americans covered by health insurance. specifically, since 2014, the aca has required most individuals to maintain health insurance coverage or potentially to pay a penalty for noncompliance and has offered states the option of expanding medicaid coverage to additional individuals. the implementation of the coverage expansion had a negligible impact on pfizer's 2015 revenues. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 15 additionally, policy efforts designed specifically to reduce patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions. a number of the candidates for the 2016 u.s. presidential elections have introduced such policy proposals, and a november 2015 u.s. department of health and human services forum dedicated to drug pricing could lead to further proposals. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we continue to work with stakeholders in an effort to ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. in addition, certain regulatory changes to be implemented in 2016 may affect pfizer's obligations under the medicaid drug rebate program, but the impact of those changes is not yet known. adoption of other new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. anti-corruption. the fcpa prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. new drug approvals and pharmacovigilance. in the eu, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure, the decentralized procedure or the eu centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the eea countries, norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country. in japan, the pmda is the point of entry for businesses looking to sell drugs and medical devices in the country. the pmda, which is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, post-marketing reviews and pharmaceuticals safety, must approve an application before a new drug product may be marketed in japan. the pmda also offers consultations on clinical trials of new drugs and medical devices and provides advice on product classifications and approvals. health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the fda or the ema) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. many authorities also require local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. these requirements delay marketing authorization in those countries relative to the u.s. and europe. china's regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with u.s. or other international standards. it is common to see treatments entering the chinese market two to five years behind first marketing in the u.s. and europe, because china only issues import drug licenses to treatments approved by a foreign regulatory authority. in addition, to obtain marketing approvals for new drugs in china, a clinical trial authorization issued by the cfda is required for the conduct of phase i to iii clinical trials. foreign applicants of imported drugs, if including china-originated data in their multi-regional clinical trials and meeting the relevant technical review requirements, may receive case-by-case clinical trial waivers. generics, on the other hand, only need to undergo bioequivalence studies upon a filing for record with the cfda. a chinese drug license will only be granted if, following review, the cfda determines that the clinical data confirm the drug's safety and effectiveness. in 2012, new pharmacovigilance legislation came into force in the eu. key changes include the establishment of a new pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee within the ema, with responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. it also introduces the possibility for regulators to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. outside developed markets such as the eu and japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are typically less extensive. medical device regulation. the eu has adopted the european medical device directives as a common legal framework for all eu member states. these directives require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to meet certain quality system and safety requirements and obtain a ce marking (i.e., a mandatory conformity marking for certain products sold within the eea) for their products. the applicable authorities of the eu countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. we are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws implementing the european medical device directives. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 16 medical device laws and regulations similar to those described above are also in effect in many of the other countries/regions in which we distribute our medical device products. pricing and reimbursement . in certain international markets, such as europe, japan, china, canada, and south korea, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. governments, including the different eu member states, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of many countries linking their regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries and some third-party trade in our products between countries. in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations that are exacerbated by international reference pricing systems. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries and ongoing exchange rate fluctuations. china historically controlled prices of pharmaceutical products mainly by setting their maximum retail prices. since june 1, 2015, government-set price caps have been lifted for the vast majority of drug products. however, the government will continue to exercise indirect price control by setting reasonable reimbursement standards determined by the social insurance administrations, through a negotiation mechanism between drug manufacturers and social insurance administrations. eu regulatory changes . the eu adopted a new clinical trials regulation in may 2014, which is expected to come into effect by december 2017. this new regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the eu and will require increased public posting of clinical trial results. in another effort to increase the public availability of clinical trial results, the ema adopted a new policy on publication of clinical data for medicinal products for human use, which became effective january 1, 2015. under this policy, the ema will proactively publish clinical trial data from application dossiers for new marketing authorizations, including data from trials taking place outside the eu, after the ema has made a decision on the marketing authorization. the policy includes limited exceptions for commercially confidential information and the exclusion of any protected personal data. china regulatory changes . in an effort to encourage drug innovation and reduce the existing drug approval backlogs, the cfda unveiled several reform initiatives for china's drug approval system. the regulator now divides drugs into new drugs and generics, with the definition for new drugs changed from drugs never marketed in china to drugs that are neither marketed in or outside china. this change in definition creates more incentives for china's domestic drug manufacturers than for multinational firms, because imported drugs first marketed outside china are no longer considered new drugs. another major initiative is the piloting of the marketing authorization holder system in ten provinces in china, where the market authorization/drug license holders are no longer required to be the actual manufacturers. the marketing authorization holder system will allow for more flexibilities in contract manufacturing arrangements and asset transfers, but it is not applicable to imported drugs. a number of other policy changes are expected to be able to streamline and accelerate domestic and imported drug approvals in china. these changes include introducing an umbrella clinical trial authorization for all three phases of registration studies (instead of the original phase-by-phase approvals), implementing a filing/recordation system for bioequivalence studies on generics (instead of the original review and approval system), and admitting more types of drugs as innovative drugs eligible for the fast track/green channel approval pathway. healthcare provider transparency and disclosures. a number of countries have implemented laws requiring (or their industry associations have recommended) disclosure of transfers of value made by pharmaceutical and medical device companies to healthcare providers. for example, in 2013, the efpia released its disclosure code of transfers of value to healthcare professionals and organizations. the code requires all members of efpia, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations beginning in 2016, covering the relevant transfers in 2015. intellectual property . the wto-trips required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2033 for least-developed countries. while we still face patent grant, enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, a number of countries have made improvements. we include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. while the global intellectual property environment has improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their local pharmaceutical industries. there is considerable political and economic pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 17 as more restrictive standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries. canada's intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity (eight years plus six-month pediatric extension), but it lacks the predictability and stability that otherwise comparable countries provide. through intense negotiations as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement, canadian authorities committed to introduce a right of appeal, a form of patent term restoration and to elevate the current data protection to a treaty obligation, further aligning its intellectual property regime to the eu. canada is also signatory of the 2015 trans-pacific trade partnership (tpp), and canada may enhance its intellectual property regime in line with its tpp obligations. the patent utility doctrine developed by the canadian courts remains an important concern which is currently not being addressed by the canadian government. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established r&amp;d centers in china due to increased confidence in china's intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. trade representative's priority watch list for 2015. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., national health surveillance agency in brazil), restrictive patentability rules, ambiguity regarding the term of certain patents and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. in india, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings, and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. india maintains a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delays the granting of patents and adds an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents. indian law includes special restrictions on the types of pharmaceutical inventions that may be patented which may limit our ability to protect our products. recent use by the indian government of compulsory licensing and patent revocation mechanisms heightens the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population, such as infectious diseases, cancer and diabetes. in september 2012, pfizer's patent covering sutent was revoked by the indian patent office and other challenges against pfizer patents are ongoing. in south korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system was implemented as part of the u.s.-korea free trade agreement in 2012. the korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a3. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings commercial and other matters in our 2015 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2015 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $23 million; and other environment-related expenses $144 million. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with laws related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not currently anticipate they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including potential physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to more frequent and severe weather events and water availability. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have a robust program for reviewing our vulnerability to these potential risks and we update our assessments periodically. to date, we have concluded that, because of pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 18 our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not anticipate that these risks will have a material impact on pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. tax matters in our 2015 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 97,900 people in our operations throughout the world. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of itrshra requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224 (the executive orders). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2015 , our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, medical products and consumer products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran. we ship pfizer products to iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2015 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 19 item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2015 form 10-k and in our 2015 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management's plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, may, could, likely, ongoing, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, target, forecast, goal, objective, aim and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our recent acquisition of hospira, our pending combination with allergan, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2016 section in our 2015 financial report; the anticipated costs and cost savings set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook and costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives sections in our 2015 financial report and in notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; the benefits, including synergies, expected from our recent acquisition of hospira, the expected timing of completion, tax treatment and benefits of our pending combination with allergan and the expected timing of a decision regarding a potential separation of our innovative products and established products businesses, set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook section in our 2015 financial report; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2015 financial report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company ' pension and postretirement plans during 2016 set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2015 financial report section in our 2015 financial report. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business, industry and operations : managed care trends consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. in addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. this cost shifting has given consumers greater control of medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 20 companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. the date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. a number of our current innovative products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. also, the patents covering several of our medicines, including sutent , epipen , toviaz , tygacil extended-release capsules and precedex premix in the u.s. are being challenged by generic manufacturers. our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering several of their products that may impact our licenses or co-promotion rights to such products. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. the introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. we also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. the ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before generic or biosimilar market formation is important to that product's profitability. prices for products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following market formation, as additional companies receive approvals to market that product and competition intensifies. if a company can be first-to-market such that the branded drug is the only other competition for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved until other competitors enter the market. with increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product market, the timeliness with which we can market new generic or biosimilar products will increase in importance. if we are unable to bring our generic or biosimilar products to market on a timely basis, and secure first-to-market positions, our sales and profit opportunities could be adversely impacted. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of seven biopharmaceutical products: prevnar/prevenar 13 , lyrica , enbrel , lipitor , viagra , sutent and the premarin family of products, as well as more than $1 billion in alliance revenues (primarily eliquis ) in 2015. those products and alliance revenues accounted for 44% of our total revenues in 2015. if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. for example, in december 2014, generic versions of celebrex became available pursuant to settlement agreements with several generic manufacturers. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity section in our 2015 financial report. further, our alliance revenues have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights recent losses and expected losses of collaboration rights section in our 2015 financial report. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 21 research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for the future and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. there can be no assurance that these strategies will deliver the desired result, which could affect profitability in the future. biotechnology products abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. the expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period that has expired. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products. we are developing biosimilar medicines. the evolving pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries could diminish the value of our past and future investments in biosimilars. other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities once the drug receives regulatory approval. for example, more detailed studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process, but each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit and the potential delays to approval of the primary indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably foresee and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which these challenges are foreseen and addressed could affect our future results. risks affecting international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets, including the full integration of emerging markets into each of our three operating segments: gip, voc and gep. however, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending, which, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 22 specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has had limited impact on pfizer to date, a number of factors may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future given our growing specialty business portfolio. these include the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world, u.s. pbms seeking to negotiate greater discounts, deteriorating finances of certain governments and the uptake of biosimilars as they become available. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). see the global economic environment risk factor below. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with cgmps and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, and counterfeit goods. regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cgmp requirements. failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. outsourcing and enterprise resource planning we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, non-clinical research, safety services and other areas. for example, in 2015, we placed the majority of our clinical trial execution services with four strategic clinical research organizations (cros). service performance issues with these cros may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. outsourcing of services to third parties could also expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery or deliverables, which may result in missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, supply disruptions, non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our results. we continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. these are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. if any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of our enterprise resource planning system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. collaborations and other relationships with third parties we depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. to achieve expected longer term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments in such transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings. we rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations. failure by one or more of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory or other obligations to pfizer, or any disruption in the relationships between pfizer and these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval or commercialization of our products and product candidates and pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 23 could also result in non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. difficulties of our wholesale distributors in 2015, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenues (and 30% of our total u.s. revenues), and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 34% of our total revenues (and 74% of our total u.s. revenues). if one of our significant wholesale distributors should encounter financial or other difficulties, such distributor might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through collaborations, alliances, licenses, joint ventures, equity- or debt-based investments, mergers and acquisitions. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions (including the pending combination with allergan) in the anticipated timeframe or at all, and integrate acquisitions. further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. additionally, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, including the possibility that expected synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the importation of medicines across borders; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the fda and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; working diligently to raise public awareness about the dangers of counterfeit medicines; and working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. no assurance can be given, however, that our efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. risks related to government regulation and legal proceedings : pricing and reimbursement u.s. and international governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. pharmaceutical and medical device product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. some states have implemented, and other pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 24 states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical and medical device product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in certain international markets, such as europe, japan, china, canada and south korea, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to patients and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, and we have seen government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets, particularly under recent global economic pressures. as a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain timely or adequate government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare reform/healthcare legislation the u.s. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. for example, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and its provisions become effective on various dates. we expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the aca over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges regulatory environment/pricing and access u.s. healthcare legislation section in our 2015 financial report and in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints in the united states . we also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the aca. there is no assurance that the aca, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. in addition, certain regulatory changes to be implemented in 2016 may affect pfizer's obligations under the medicaid drug rebate program, but the impact of those changes is not yet known. other u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect our business, including, among others, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries, restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. u.s. deficit-reduction actions any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. substantial regulation we are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the u.s., principally by the fda and the dea, and foreign regulatory authorities. failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products innovation is critical to the success of our company. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data. there can be no assurance regarding our ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 25 and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, or as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products, which will depend on the assessment by regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there is no assurance that we will be able to address the comments in complete response letters received by us with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of the fda, any of our late stage pipeline products will receive regulatory approval and/or be commercially successful or that recently approved products will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. in addition, there are risks associated with interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. there are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect the realization of r&amp;d and product-related, forward-looking statements. further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. in addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance, in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales. the fda, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which has delayed approvals of new generic products. these delays have become longer, and while the fda has stated that it is taking steps to address the backlog of pending applications, continued approval delays may be experienced by generic drug applicants over the next few years. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase 4 trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. regulatory agencies in countries outside the u.s. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on the availability or commercial potential of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall. changing regulation of medical devices in 2014, the fda issued a final guidance document entitled infusion pumps total product life cycle. through this final guidance, the fda has established additional pre-market requirements for infusion pumps. at the same time, the fda is also generally enhancing its pre-market requirements for medical devices. although we cannot predict with certainty the future impact of these initiatives, it appears likely that the process for obtaining regulatory approvals to market infusion pumps and medical devices will become more costly and time consuming. interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply if we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official. if the interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt or increase enforcement efforts of new anti-bribery laws and regulations. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 26 changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations. like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to investigations and extensive regulation by government agencies in the u.s., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. as a result, we have interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis. criminal charges, and substantial fines and/or civil penalties, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from government investigations. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the ffdca, the medicaid drug rebate program, the fcpa and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2015 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. risks related to intellectual property : patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinctive patent laws. we pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 27 may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in a policy of routine compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. in countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches to challenge our patent rights. most of the suits by generic drug manufacturers involve claims that patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer. also, counterclaims, as well as various independent actions, have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, our patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. in various jurisdictions, we are party to other patent damages suits pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry related to patent enforcement litigation. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. third party intellectual property claims a properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. we are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. part of our established products business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. these opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others. to achieve a first-to-market or early market position for generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars, we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. third parties may claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. we are involved in patent-related disputes with companies over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products. once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings have not been resolved. if those proceedings ultimately determine that our products infringe the patent rights of another company, we may face damages, including a requirement to pay a reasonable royalty or the lost profits from the sale of the branded product. remedies also may include or consist of an injunction preventing us from further manufacture or sales of the affected product for a period of time. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. risk related to technology : information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 28 maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. as a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. risks related to our strategic transactions : hospira acquisition we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of hospira. the success of our acquisition of hospira will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our businesses. anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. the integration process may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. we also may fail to generate the revenue growth for the acquired business that we expected at the time of entering into the transaction. in addition, hospira has experienced manufacturing disruptions, device remediations and increased regulatory scrutiny due to quality issues. future manufacturing problems, as well as any corrective actions and their operational implementation, could adversely impact the revenue we generate from products acquired from hospira and result in substantial unanticipated costs. pending combination with allergan we and allergan must obtain required shareholder approvals and governmental and regulatory consents to consummate the merger, which, if delayed or not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, may prevent, delay or impair the consummation of the merger, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. on november 23, 2015, we announced that we have entered into a definitive merger agreement with allergan under which we have agreed to combine with allergan. completion of the proposed transaction with allergan is subject to certain closing conditions, including, among others, the receipt of required approvals of our shareholders and allergan shareholders, clearance of the merger by certain governmental and regulatory authorities, including the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act and other filings or approvals as may be required pursuant to the antitrust and competition laws of certain foreign jurisdictions, including the eu. the governmental agencies with which we and allergan will make these filings and seek certain of these approvals and consents have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. we can provide no assurance that all required approvals and consents will be obtained. moreover, as a condition to their approval of the transaction, certain governmental agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the business of the combined company after the closing of the merger. any one of these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the effective time of the merger or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. further, no assurance can be given that the required shareholder approvals will be obtained or that the required closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals or clearances. finally, the closing of the merger is subject to the closing of allergan's pending divestiture of its generics business to teva pharmaceuticals industries ltd., which itself is subject to certain closing conditions, including receipt of governmental and regulatory consents, and no assurance can be given that the closing of such divestiture will occur on a timely basis or at all. if we and allergan agree to any requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals or clearances required to consummate the transaction, these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could adversely affect the integration of the two companies' operations and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. in addition, future potential changes to the tax laws, if adopted prior to closing, could give rise to a right of pfizer or allergan to terminate the merger agreement. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in a failure to consummate the merger or have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. if the merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subjected to a number of material risks. the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that current market prices reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed. in pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 29 addition, some costs related to the merger must be paid whether or not the merger is completed. we may also experience negative reactions from our shareholders, customers and employees. in addition, in specified circumstances, we could be required to reimburse expenses of allergan or pay allergan a termination fee of up to $3.5 billion. while the merger is pending, we and allergan will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect our respective businesses and operations. these uncertainties could also adversely affect the combined company following the completion of the merger. uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, customers and suppliers may have an adverse effect on us and allergan. these uncertainties may impair our or allergan's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with us or allergan to seek to change existing business relationships with us and/or allergan. employee retention may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. if key employees depart because of issues related to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the businesses, the business of the combined company following the merger could be seriously harmed. in addition, until the merger is completed, the merger agreement restricts us and allergan from taking specified actions without the consent of the other party. these restrictions may, among other things, prevent us or allergan from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. the combined company may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the two businesses. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, to a large extent, on the combined company's ability to integrate the two businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with allergan's business practices and operations. the integration process may be disruptive to the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, may restrict the full realization of expected benefits. the failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transactions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect the results of operations of the combined company. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and other business relationships and diversion of management attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management attention to integration matters; difficulties in integrating operations and systems; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies; difficulties in assimilating employees and in attracting and retaining key personnel; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, accretion targets, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company and in coordinating a geographically dispersed organization; and potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger. many of these factors are outside of our control and/or will be outside the control of the combined company, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company. in addition, even if the operations of the businesses are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the merger may not be realized, including the anticipated synergies, cost savings and sales or growth opportunities. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses, as well as prior to the consummation of the combination. all of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined company, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and negatively impact the price of the combined company ordinary shares. as a result, it cannot be assured that the pending combination with allergan will result in the full realization of the benefits anticipated from the transaction within the anticipated time frames or at all. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 30 in addition, although the combined company is expected, under current law, to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the irs may not agree with this treatment. even if treated as a foreign corporation, certain adverse tax consequences may apply to the combined company that could erode some of the synergies expected from the combination. similarly, future changes in tax law could affect the combined company's status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes or could otherwise materially and adversely affect some of the synergies expected from the combination. any such changes in law or treatment by the irs could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted or asserted after the merger is consummated. moreover, various u.s. federal and state legislative and other proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies (and subsidiaries of u.s. companies) that move (or have moved) their corporate location abroad may affect pfizer if adopted. any such changes in law or treatment by the irs or other governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on the anticipated results of the operations of the combined company. finally, our expectations regarding the timing and amount of accretion following consummation of the merger reflect the impact of anticipated share repurchases by us. the actual timing and size of any such share repurchases will depend on actual and expected financial results and the sufficiency of distributable reserves, as well as assessments at the time regarding capital allocation alternatives. reduced or delayed share repurchase activity may result in less accretion. our shareholders cannot be sure of the value of the consideration they will receive in the merger, and may receive a form of consideration different from what they elect. our shareholders will receive ordinary shares of the combined company as a result of the allergan merger, which have rights different from shares of our common stock and our preferred shares. because the market price of allergan ordinary shares and shares of our common stock will fluctuate, our shareholders cannot be sure of the value of the consideration they will receive in the merger. in addition, because the exchange ratio is fixed, the number of ordinary shares of the combined company to be received by holders of pfizer common stock in the merger will not change between now and the time the merger is completed to reflect changes in the trading prices of pfizer common stock or allergan ordinary shares, share repurchases or other factors. furthermore, although our shareholders will be entitled to elect to receive allergan ordinary shares or cash consideration for their shares of our common stock, such elections will be subject to proration procedures set forth in the merger agreement, such that our existing shareholders will receive in the aggregate no less than $6 billion and no more than $12 billion in cash, and therefore our existing shareholders may receive a form of consideration different from what they elect. upon completion of the allergan merger, the rights of our existing shareholders who receive allergan ordinary shares, which will become the ordinary shares of the combined company, will be governed by the memorandum of association and articles of association of allergan, which, subject to the amendments contemplated by the merger agreement, will become the memorandum of association and articles of the combined company, and by irish law. the rights associated with shares of our common stock and our preferred shares are different from the rights associated with these ordinary shares. in addition, the laws of ireland differ from the laws in effect in the u.s. and may afford less protection to holders of securities in the combined company. finally, it is expected that our existing shareholders as a group will receive shares in the merger constituting approximately 56% of the outstanding ordinary shares of the combined company on a fully diluted basis immediately following the effective time of the merger (based on the closing price of pfizer common stock and certain other assumptions as of november 20, 2015). as a result, our shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger and will exercise less influence over management. the market value of our common stock may be adversely affected as a result of financial statement charges and cash costs associated with our proposed transaction with allergan. we expect to account for the proposed merger using the acquisition method of accounting, which will result in charges to our earnings that could adversely affect our reported operating results. under this method, we will allocate the total purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from allergan based on their fair values as of the date of the completion of the proposed merger, and record any excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. for certain tangible and intangible assets, reevaluating fair value as of the completion date of the proposed merger will result in pfizer incurring additional depreciation and/or amortization expense that exceed the combined amounts recorded by pfizer and allergan prior to the proposed merger. this increased expense will be recorded by us over the useful lives of the underlying assets. in addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets were to become impaired, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of those assets. we expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the integration process. the substantial majority of such expenses will be composed of transaction costs, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs, although certain additional costs may be incurred as well, such as potential costs related to litigation seeking to prevent the proposed transaction. we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of other efficiencies related to the pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 31 integration of the businesses will allow us to more than offset incremental transaction- and integration-related costs over time, but this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. other risks: the global economic environment in addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. we believe that patients, who are experiencing increases in co-pays and restrictions on access to medicines as payers seek to control costs, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. we are exposed to negative pricing pressure in various markets around the world. the u.s. has highly competitive insurance markets. europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets have government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. furthermore, some government agencies and third-party payers use health technology assessments in ways that, at times, lead to restricted access to and lower prices for new medicines. the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. however, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. we continue to monitor the credit and economic situations in several international markets, including venezuela and greece, where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. we cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business. other potential impacts of variations in the economic cycle include declining sales; increased costs; changes in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of, or a lower rate of return on, our financial assets and pension plan investments, which may require us to increase our pension funding obligations; adverse government actions; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 56% of our total 2015 revenues were derived from international operations, including 23% from europe and 20% from japan and the rest of asia. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations can impact our results and financial guidance. for example, in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from an official rate of 4.3 to 6.3 of venezuelan currency to the u.s. dollar. in the fourth quarter of 2015, we resolved that our venezuela bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation are no longer expected to be settled at the 6.3 rate, but at the simadi rate of 200, resulting in a foreign currency loss. news reports state the venezuelan government announced that, effective february 18, 2016, the official rate of 6.3 would be replaced by a rate of 10.0; and, the operation of the simadi rate would change. see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources global economic conditions venezuela operations section in our 2015 financial report for more information. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2015 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2015 financial report and the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section in our 2015 financial report. those sections of our 2015 financial report are incorporated by reference. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 32 notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions/intangible assets, goodwill and equity-method investments growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) our internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives; (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our recent acquisition of hospira; and (v) our pending combination with allergan. in addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charge may be significant. our other intangible assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions section in our 2015 financial report. we also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. an impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. we may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management. internal control over financial reporting the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or lapses in disclosure controls and procedures, could undermine the ability to provide accurate disclosure (including with respect to financial information) on a timely basis, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our disclosures (including with respect to financial information), require significant resources to remediate the lapse or deficiency, and expose us to legal or regulatory proceedings. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2015 financial report. pfizer inc. | 2015 form 10-k | 36risk factors 11 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. geographic revenues for innovative health* * dev int'l = developed markets except u.s.; em mkts = emerging markets for additional information regarding the revenues of our ih business, including revenues of major ih products, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues major products and revenues selected product descriptions sections in our 2016 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our ih business, see the analysis of operating segment information innovative health operating segment section of our 2016 financial report. the key therapeutic areas comprising our ih business segment include: internal medicine for a discussion of certain of our key internal medicine products, including lyrica (outside all of europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia countries), viagra (u.s. and canada), chantix/champix and eliquis (jointly developed and commercialized with bms), see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2016 financial report. vaccines for a discussion of certain of our key vaccine products, including prevnar 13/prevenar 13 , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2016 financial report. oncology for a discussion of certain of our key oncology products, including ibrance, sutent, xalkori, inlyta and xtandi (jointly developed and commercialized with astellas), see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2016 financial report. inflammation and immunology for a discussion of certain of our key inflammation and immunology products, including enbrel (outside the u.s. and canada) and xeljanz , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2016 financial report. rare diseases for a discussion of certain of our key rare diseases products, including benefix , genotropin , and refacto af/xyntha , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2016 financial report. consumer healthcare according to euromonitor international's retail sales data, in 2016 , pfizer's consumer healthcare business was the fourth-largest branded multi-national, otc consumer healthcare business in the world and produced two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands ( centrum and advil ) in the world. major categories and product lines in our consumer healthcare business include: dietary supplements : centrum brands (including centrum , centrum silver , centrum men's and women's , centrum multigummies , centrum vitamints , centrum specialist , centrum flavor burst and centrum kids ), caltrate and emergen-c ; pain management : advil brands (including advil , advil pm , advil liqui-gels , advil film coated , advil menstrual pain , children's advil , infants' advil and advil migraine) and thermacare ; gastrointestinal : nexium 24hr/nexium control and preparation h ; and respiratory and personal care : robitussin , advil cold &amp; sinus , advil sinus congestion &amp; pain, dimetapp and chapstick . essential health we recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of two eh products in 2016 ( lipitor and the premarin family of products), three eh products in 2015 ( lipitor , lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia) and the premarin family of products) and six eh products in 2014 ( celebrex , lipitor , lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia), zyvox , norvasc and the premarin family of products). see item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. geographic revenues for essential health* * dev int'l = developed markets except u.s.; em mkts = emerging markets pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 4 table of contents for additional information regarding the revenues of our eh business, including revenues of major eh products, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues major products and revenues selected product descriptions sections in our 2016 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our eh business, see the analysis of operating segment information essential health operating segment section of our 2016 financial report. the product categories in our eh business segment include: global brands , which includes: legacy established products : includes products that have lost patent protection (excluding sterile injectable pharmaceuticals and peri-loe products); and peri-loe products : includes products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. these products primarily include lyrica in certain developed europe markets, pristiq globally, celebrex , zyvox and revatio in most developed markets, vfend and viagra in certain developed europe markets and japan, and inspra in the eu; sterile injectable pharmaceuticals : includes generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding peri-loe products); infusion systems (through february 2, 2017): includes medication management systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as intravenous infusion products, including large volume intravenous solutions and their associated administration sets; biosimilars : includes inflectra / remsima (biosimilar infliximab) in the u.s. and certain international markets, nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) in certain european, asian and africa/middle east markets and retacrit (biosimilar epoetin zeta) in certain european and africa/middle east markets; and pfizer centreone : includes (i) revenues from legacy pfizer's contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation (previously known as pfizer centresource), including revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with zoetis inc.; and (ii) revenues from legacy hospira's one-2-one sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation. for a discussion of certain of our key eh products, including lipitor , the premarin family of products, norvasc , lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia), celebrex , pristiq, zyvox and inflectra , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions section in our 2016 financial report. alliance revenues we are party to collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, including eliquis and xtandi. eliquis has been jointly developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. the two companies share commercialization expenses and profit/losses equally on a global basis. in april 2015, we signed an agreement with bms to transfer full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets to us, beginning in the third quarter of 2015. xtandi is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi . subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. pfizer and astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions net). collaboration rights for enbrel (in the u.s. and canada), spiriva and rebif have expired. for additional information, including a description of certain of these collaboration and co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights sections in our 2016 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 5 table of contents research and development innovation by our r&amp;d organization is very important to our success. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. our r&amp;d operations we conduct r&amp;d internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. our r&amp;d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations. our wrd organization is generally responsible for research projects for our ih business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the ih segment via the gpd organization, which was formed in early 2016, for possible clinical and commercial development. the gpd organization is a new, unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products. gpd is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. gpd combines certain previously separate development-related functions from the ih business and the wrd organization to achieve a development capability that is expected to deliver high-quality, efficient, and well-executed clinical programs by enabling greater speed, greater cost efficiencies, and reduced complexity across our development portfolio. the wrd and gpd organizations also have responsibility for certain science-based and other end-to-end platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&amp;d projects, including eh r&amp;d projects. these organizations include science-based functions (which are part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicinal chemistry, regulatory and drug safety. as a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. for additional information regarding our r&amp;d operations, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy research and development operations and costs and expenses research and development (r&amp;d) expenses description of research and development operations sections in our 2016 financial report. our r&amp;d priorities and strategy our r&amp;d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research primarily focuses on: biosimilars; inflammation and immunology; metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks; neuroscience; oncology; rare diseases; and vaccines. we also seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations and alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one or more of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products. our r&amp;d pipeline and competition innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. according to the pharmaceutical benchmarking forum, out of 20 compounds entering preclinical development, only one is approved by a regulatory authority in a major market (u.s., the eu or japan). the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research and development. as of january 31, 2017, we had the following number of projects in various stages of r&amp;d: development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. while these drug candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our r&amp;d efforts seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering potential new indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section in our 2016 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to r&amp;d. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. in addition, several of our competitors operate without large r&amp;d expenses and make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. for additional information, see the competition and item 1a. risk factors competitive products sections below. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 6 table of contents international operations we have significant operations outside the u.s. operations in developed and emerging markets are managed through our two business segments: ih and eh. emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. we sell our products in over 125 countries. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $26.5 billion accounted for 50% of our total revenues in 2016 . japan is our largest national market outside the u.s. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2016 financial report, and the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in our 2016 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. revenues by national market our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. these include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see item 1a. risk factors risks affecting international operations below. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints outside the united states below for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2016 financial report, as well as the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2016 financial report. those sections of our 2016 financial report are incorporated by reference. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and pharmacists; mcos that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems, pbms and health plans; and employers and government agencies who hire mcos to provide health benefits to their employees. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that seeks to communicate the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 7 table of contents our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of our vaccines products in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to the centers for disease control and prevention, wholesalers and individual provider offices. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and mco formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos. mcos use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we also work with mcos to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. in 2016, our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 39 % of our total revenues (and approximately 76 % of our total u.s. revenues). % of 2016 total revenues and u.s. revenues from major biopharmaceutical wholesalers and other customers our global consumer healthcare business uses its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors and agents, principally in smaller markets. the advertising and promotions for our consumer healthcare business are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. our consumer healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the consumer healthcare business. patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year viagra 2012 (1) 2013 2013 (1) lyrica 2018 2014 (2) 2022 chantix 2020 2021 2022 xeljanz 2020 n/a (3) 2025 sutent 2021 2021 2024 eliquis (4) 2023 2026 2026 ibrance 2023 2023 n/a (5) inlyta 2025 2025 2025 prevnar 13/prevenar 13 2026 2026 (6) 2029 eucrisa 2026 n/a (7) n/a (7) xtandi (8) 2027 * (8) * (8) xalkori 2029 2027 2028 (1) in addition to the basic product patent covering viagra , which expired in 2012, viagra is covered by a u.s. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with revatio (which has the same active ingredient as viagra ), expires in 2020. however, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. will be allowed to launch a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017, or earlier under certain circumstances. the corresponding method-of-treatment patent covering viagra in japan expired in may 2014. (2) for lyrica , regulatory exclusivity in the eu expired in july 2014. (3) the xeljanz marketing authorization application has been filed and is under review in the eu. (4) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. (5) the ibrance marketing authorization application has been filed and is under review in japan. (6) the eu patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 has been revoked following an opposition proceeding. this first instance decision has been appealed. there are other eu patents and pending applications covering the formulation and various aspects of the manufacturing process of prevenar 13 that remain in force. (7) eucrisa is not approved in the eu and japan. (8) xtandi is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with astellas, who has exclusive commercialization rights for xtandi outside the u.s. a number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. for additional information, including a description of certain of our co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, and a further discussion of our products experiencing, or expected to experience in 2017, patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2016 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, xeljanz and xtandi . for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a1. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2016 financial report. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; or conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. biotechnology products our biotechnology products, including benefix , refacto , xyntha and enbrel (we market enbrel outside the u.s. and canada), may face in the future, or already face, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). in the u.s., such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin , which was approved under the ffdca. biosimilars are versions of biologic medicines that have been developed and proven to be similar to the original biologic in terms of safety and efficacy and to have no clinically meaningful differences. biosimilars have the potential to offer high-quality, lower-cost alternatives to biologic medicines. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage in 2010 of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. the regulatory implementation of these aca provisions is ongoing, and, since 2015, the fda approved a number of biosimilars, including inflectra (infliximab-dyyb). pfizer has exclusive commercialization rights to inflectra from celltrion inc. and celltrion healthcare, co., ltd. (collectively, celltrion) in the u.s., canada and certain other territories. pfizer also shares inflectra commercialization rights with celltrion in europe. for additional information on inflectra , see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product descriptions inflectra/remsima section in our 2016 financial report. for additional information on the aca's approval framework for biosimilars, see government regulation and price constraints biosimilar regulation below. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. in 2013, the ema approved the first biosimilar of a monoclonal antibody, and in january 2016, the european commission approved an etanercept biosimilar referencing pfizer's enbrel . in japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars that reference our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. however, biosimilar manufacturing is complex. at least initially upon approval of a biosimilar competitor, biosimilar competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant as generic competition with respect to small molecule drugs. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop biosimilar medicines. as such, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the u.s. see item 1a. risk factors biotechnology products below. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products. likewise, as we develop and manufacture biosimilars and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. we also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons' efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 8 table of contents operating conditions have become more challenging under mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. our consumer healthcare business faces competition from otc business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, and retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors' promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors' introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to otc switches). our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of alternative or next generation vaccines. for example, prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent or additional valent next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to the expiration of its patents, which may adversely affect our future results. our generics and biosimilars businesses compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generics and biosimilars manufacturers. globally, pfizer sells generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, as well as biosimilars. we seek to maximize the opportunity to establish a first-to-market or early market position for our generic injectable drugs and biosimilars, as a first-to-market position provides customers a lower-cost alternative immediately when available and also may provide us with a period of exclusivity as the only generic or biosimilar provider. managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 283 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see government regulation and price constraints in the united states below), the marketing of prescription drugs to both consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continues to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. in addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, mcos transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. this financial disincentive is a tool for mcos to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the mcos. mcos have recently introduced additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. we are closely monitoring these new approaches and developing appropriate strategies to respond to them. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. in 2015, the fda approved the first biosimilar and mcos are evaluating the appropriate placement of these new agents on their formularies. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. however, increasingly our branded products are being placed on the higher tiers or in a non-preferred status. mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 9 table of contents carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. in 2017, there likely will be federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. we are monitoring any such actions to see if any changes to the aca will be enacted that would impact our business. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that our branded products face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic competitors do not generally need to conduct clinical trials and can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. in a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. no serious shortages or delays of raw materials were encountered in 2016 , and none are expected in 2017 . we have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements where there have been short-term imbalances between supply and demand, but generally at higher prices than those historically paid. government regulation and price constraints pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the countries in which they do business. certain laws and regulations that govern pfizer's business are discussed below. general . our business has been and will continue to be subject to numerous laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by various governmental bodies. for additional information on these proceedings and actions, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings in our 2016 financial report. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, warning letters and product recalls or seizures, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from such proceedings and actions. in the united states drug regulation . in the u.s., biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulations by the fda, including regulations that govern the testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling and storage of our products, record keeping, advertising and promotion. our products are also subject to post-market surveillance under the ffdca and its implementing regulations with respect to drugs, as well as the public health service act and its implementing regulations with respect to biologics. the fda also regulates our consumer healthcare products. other u.s. federal agencies, including the dea, also regulate certain of our products. the u.s. federal trade commission has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including otc drugs and dietary supplements. many of our activities also are subject to the jurisdiction of the sec. before a new biopharmaceutical product may be marketed in the u.s., the fda must approve an nda for a new drug or a bla for a biologic. the steps required before the fda will approve an nda or bla generally include preclinical studies followed by multiple stages of clinical trials conducted by the study sponsor; sponsor submission of the application to the fda for review; the fda's review of the data to assess the drug's safety and effectiveness; and the fda's inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured. before a generic drug may be marketed in the u.s., the fda must approve an anda. the anda review process typically does not require new preclinical and clinical studies, because it relies on the studies establishing safety and efficacy conducted for the referenced drug previously approved through the nda process. the anda process, however, does require the sponsor to conduct one or more bioequivalence studies to show that the anda drug is bioequivalent to the previously approved referenced brand drug, submission of an application to the fda for review, and the fda's inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured. as a condition of product approval, the fda may require a sponsor to conduct post-marketing clinical studies, known as phase 4 studies, and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of the approved product. the fda may limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-market studies and programs. any modifications to a drug or biologic, including new indications or changes to labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, may require the submission and approval of a new or supplemental nda or bla before the modification can be implemented, which may require that we develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. our ongoing manufacture and distribution of drugs and biologics is subject to continuing regulation by the fda, including recordkeeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences associated with the product, and adherence to cgmps, which regulate all aspects of the manufacturing process. we are also subject to numerous regulatory requirements relating to the advertising and promotion of drugs and biologics, including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising. failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and marketing of our products may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. biosimilar regulation. the aca created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation and, since 2015, approved a number of biosimilars, including inflectra . through those approvals and the issuance of draft and final guidance, the fda has begun to address open questions about the naming convention for biosimilars and the use of data from a non-u.s.-licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. over the next several years, the fda is expected to issue additional draft and final guidance documents impacting biosimilars. in 2017, there likely will be federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. if the aca is repealed, substantially modified, or invalidated, it is unclear what, if any, impact such action would have on biosimilar regulation. sales and marketing . the marketing practices of u.s. biopharmaceutical companies are generally subject to various federal and state healthcare laws that are intended to prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. these laws include anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a biopharmaceutical company from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration to generate business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular product. false claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for goods (including drugs) or services to third-party payers (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent. although the specific provisions of these laws vary, their scope is generally broad and there may not be regulations, guidance or court decisions that apply the laws to any particular industry practices, including the marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies. violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and/or exclusion from federal health care programs (including medicare and medicaid). the federal government and various states have also enacted laws to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies. the laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers; require disclosure to the federal or state government and public of such interactions; and/or require the adoption of compliance standards or programs. many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our activities could be subject to the penalties under the pertinent laws and regulations. pricing and reimbursement . pricing for our pharmaceutical products depends in part on government regulation. pfizer must offer discounted pricing or rebates on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program, the federal ceiling price drug pricing program, the 340b drug pricing program and the medicare part d program. pfizer must also report specific prices to government agencies under healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program and medicare part b. the calculations necessary to determine the prices reported are complex and the failure to report prices accurately may expose pfizer to penalties. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section in our 2016 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1g. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues and trade accounts receivable in our 2016 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. government and private third-party payers routinely seek to manage utilization and control the costs of our products. for example, the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain pharmaceutical products under medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products in certain states. as another example, access to our products under the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans with which state medicaid agencies contract to provide services to medicaid beneficiaries. given certain states' current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers, who are the primary purchasers of our pharmaceutical products in the u.s., will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. healthcare reform. the u.s. and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to regulate the healthcare industry. in march 2010, the u.s. congress enacted the aca, which included changes that significantly affected the pharmaceutical industries, such as: increasing drug rebates paid to state medicaid programs under the medicaid drug rebate program for brand name and generic prescription drugs and extending those rebates to medicaid managed care; requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide discounts on brand name prescription drugs sold to medicare beneficiaries whose prescription drug costs cause the beneficiaries to be subject to the medicare part d coverage gap; and imposing an annual fee on manufacturers and importers of brand name prescription drugs reimbursed under certain government programs, including medicare and medicaid. the aca included provisions designed to increase the number of americans covered by health insurance. specifically, since 2014, the aca has required most individuals to maintain health insurance coverage or potentially to pay a penalty for noncompliance and has offered states the option of expanding medicaid coverage to additional individuals. the implementation of the coverage expansion had a negligible impact on pfizer's 2016 revenues. the aca also establishes an independent payment advisory board (ipab) to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending by proposing changes to medicare payments if expenditures exceed certain targets. the threshold for triggering ipab proposals was not reached in 2016, so no adjustments will be made under the ipab until 2019 at the earliest. if no ipab members are nominated, the duties of the ipab will default to the secretary of the department of health and human services. additionally, efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products could adversely affect our business if implemented. there has recently been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we continue to work with stakeholders to ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. adoption of other new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. in 2017, we may face uncertainties because there likely will be federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. there is no assurance that the aca, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. we will continue to actively work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes and lower costs to the healthcare system. anti-corruption. the fcpa prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. new drug approvals and pharmacovigilance. in the eu, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure, the decentralized procedure or the eu centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the centralized procedure, managed by the ema, results in one single authorization for the whole eu which provides the most rapid and efficient means of gaining approval across the eu and is the one most commonly used for new products. in japan, the pmda is the point of entry for businesses looking to sell drugs in the country. the pmda, which is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, post-marketing reviews and pharmaceuticals safety, must approve an application before a new drug product may be marketed in japan. the pmda also offers consultations on clinical trials of new drugs and provides advice on product classifications and approvals. health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the fda or the ema) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. many authorities also require local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. these requirements delay marketing authorization in those countries relative to the u.s. and europe. china's regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with u.s. or other international standards. it is common to see treatments entering the chinese market two to eight years behind first marketing in the u.s. and europe, because historically china has only issued import drug licenses to treatments approved by a foreign regulatory authority. in addition, to obtain marketing approvals for new drugs in china, a clinical trial authorization issued by the cfda is required for the conduct of phase i to iii clinical trials. foreign applicants of imported drugs, if including china-originated data in their multi-regional clinical trials and meeting the relevant technical review requirements, may receive case-by-case additional local clinical trial waivers. oral generics, on the other hand, only need to undergo bioequivalence studies upon a filing for record with the cfda, while sterile injectable generics may need local confirmatory trials for regulatory approval. a chinese drug license will only be granted if, following review, the cfda determines that the clinical data confirm the drug's safety and effectiveness. in the eu, there is detailed legislation and guidance on pharmacovigilance, which has been increased and strengthened in recent years. the ema's pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee has the responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. eu regulators may require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization safety and efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional extensive requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. outside developed markets such as the eu and japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are generally not as extensive, but there is a trend toward increasing regulation. pricing and reimbursement . in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. governments, including the different eu member states, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of many countries linking their regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries and some third-party trade in our products between countries. in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations (un) and the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd), are increasing policy pressures and scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 un high level panel report on access to medicines , and 2017 oecd report on new health technologies managing access, value and sustainability ). government adoption of these recommendations may lead to additional pricing pressures. in japan, the government recently released a basic framework for pharmaceutical pricing that may lead to the adoption of cost effectiveness assessments and pricing reviews. in china, government-set price caps were lifted for the vast majority of drug products on june 1, 2015. however, the government continues to exercise indirect price control by setting reimbursement standards through a negotiation mechanism between drug manufacturers and social insurance administrations. in addition, the cfda is now asking some companies to enter into pricing commitments as a condition for regulatory approval. eu regulatory changes . the eu adopted a new clinical trials regulation in may 2014, which is expected to come into effect by october 2018. this new regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the eu and will require increased public posting of clinical trial results. in another effort to increase the public availability of clinical trial results, the ema adopted a new policy on publication of clinical data for medicinal products for human use, which became effective january 1, 2015 and is now being actively implemented. under this policy, the ema now proactively publishes clinical trial data from application dossiers for new marketing authorizations, including data from trials taking place outside the eu, after the ema has made a decision on the marketing authorization. the policy includes limited exceptions for commercially confidential information and the exclusion of any protected personal data. brexit . in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as brexit . at present, it is unclear whether the u.k. will remain within, or affiliated to, the eu system of medicines approval and regulation, or separate itself completely. immediately following brexit, eu laws are expected to continue to apply until amended or repealed by the u.k. parliament. it is however probable that the ema, currently in london, will have to relocate to an eu member state, many of which have already bid to become the new host country. for additional information on brexit, see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources global economic conditions u.k. in our 2016 financial report . china regulatory changes . in an effort to encourage drug innovation and reduce the existing drug approval backlogs, the cfda unveiled several reform initiatives for china's drug approval system. the regulator now divides drugs into new drugs and generics, with the definition for new drugs changed from drugs never marketed in china to drugs that are neither marketed in or outside china. this change in definition creates more incentives for china's domestic drug manufacturers than for multinational firms, because imported drugs first marketed outside china are no longer considered new drugs. furthermore, the revised rules do not clarify whether foreign regulatory approval is still required for imported drug final approval in china. another major initiative is the piloting of the marketing authorization holder system in ten provinces in china, where the market authorization/drug license holders are no longer required to be the actual manufacturers. the marketing authorization holder system will allow for more flexibilities in contract manufacturing arrangements and asset transfers, but it is not applicable to imported drugs. a number of other policy changes are expected to be able to streamline and accelerate domestic and imported drug approvals in china. these changes include introducing an umbrella clinical trial authorization for all three phases of registration studies (instead of the original phase-by-phase approvals), implementing a filing/recordation system for bioequivalence studies on generics (instead of the original review and approval system), and admitting more types of drugs as innovative drugs eligible for the fast track/green channel approval pathway. healthcare provider transparency and disclosures. a number of countries have implemented laws requiring (or their industry associations have recommended) disclosure of transfers of value made by pharmaceutical companies to healthcare providers. for example, in 2013, the efpia released its disclosure code of transfers of value to healthcare professionals and organizations. the code requires all members of efpia, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations beginning in 2016, covering the relevant transfers in 2015. intellectual property . the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2033 for least-developed countries. while we still face patent grant, enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, a number of countries have made improvements. we include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. while the global intellectual property environment has improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their local pharmaceutical industries. there is considerable political and economic pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards for obtaining patents and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance (and threat of issuance) of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries. canada's intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity (eight years plus six-month pediatric extension), but it lacks the predictability and stability that otherwise comparable countries provide. through intense negotiations as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement, canadian authorities reluctantly agreed to introduce a right of appeal, a form of patent term restoration and to elevate the current data protection to a treaty obligation, further aligning its intellectual property regime to the eu. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established r&amp;d centers in china due to increased confidence in china's intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. trade representative's priority watch list for 2016. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., national health surveillance agency in brazil), restrictive patentability rules, ambiguity regarding the term of certain patents and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. in india, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the increasing tendency of the indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings (both pre- and post-grant), and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to safeguard many of our inventions and our investments in innovation. these policies heighten the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population. challenges against pfizer patents in india are ongoing. in south korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system was implemented as part of the u.s.-korea free trade agreement in 2012. the korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a3. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings commercial and other matters in our 2016 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2016 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $27 million; and other environment-related expenses $126 million. while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not currently anticipate they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including the potential for additional regulatory requirements and associated costs, and the potential for more frequent and severe weather events and water availability challenges that may impact our facilities and those of our suppliers. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have a program for reviewing our vulnerability to these potential risks and we update our assessments periodically. to date, we have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not anticipate that these risks will have a material impact on pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. tax matters in our 2016 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 96,500 people in our operations throughout the world. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224 (the executive orders). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2016 , our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, medical products and consumer products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran. we ship pfizer products to iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2016 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2016 form 10-k and in our 2016 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, may, could, likely, ongoing, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, target, forecast, goal, objective, aim and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca's small molecule anti-infectives business, the disposition of the hospira infusion systems net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2017 section in our 2016 financial report; the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, set forth in the costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives section in our 2016 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2016 financial report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company's pension and postretirement plans during 2017 set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2016 financial report. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected, projected or historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business, industry and operations : managed care trends consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. in addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. this cost shifting has given consumers greater control of medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. mcos have recently introduced additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 11 table of contents pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. the date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, upon the loss or expiration of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. a number of our products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. also, generic manufacturers have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, xeljanz and xtandi . our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering several of their products that may impact our licenses or co-promotion rights to such products. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. the introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. we also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. the ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before anticipated generic or biosimilar market formation is important to that product's profitability. prices for products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following generic market formation, and as additional companies receive approvals to market that product, competition intensifies. if a company's generic or biosimilar product can be first-to-market such that its only competition is the branded drug for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. with increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product market, the timeliness with which we can market new generic or biosimilar products will increase in importance. our success will depend on our ability to bring new products to market quickly. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of eight biopharmaceutical products: prevnar 13/prevenar 13 , lyrica , enbrel , ibrance , lipitor , viagra , sutent and the premarin family of products, as well as more than $1 billion in alliance revenues (primarily eliquis ) in 2016. those products and alliance revenues accounted for 43% of our total revenues in 2016. if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. for example, pursuant to terms of a settlement agreement, certain formulations of zyvox became subject to generic competition in the u.s. in january 2015. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity section in our 2016 financial report. further, our alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. for additional information on recent losses of collaborations rights, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights recent losses of collaboration rights section in our 2016 financial report. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 12 table of contents research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. the average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the r&amp;d portfolio. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. there can be no assurance that these strategies will deliver the desired result, which could affect profitability in the future. biotechnology products abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. the expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products. we are developing biosimilar medicines. the evolving pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries could diminish the value of our investments in biosimilars. other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if it receives regulatory approval. for example, a wider range of studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process. however, each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit, the increased complexity of development and the potential delays to approval of the lead indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which such potential challenges are foreseen and addressed could affect our future results. risks affecting international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets, including the full integration of emerging markets into each of our two distinct operating segments: ih and eh. however, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. even though we constantly pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 13 table of contents monitor the evolving emerging markets for any unanticipated risk to pfizer, certain financial or political events in such markets, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has had limited impact on pfizer to date, a number of factors may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future given our growing specialty business portfolio. these include the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world, u.s. pbms seeking to negotiate greater discounts, deteriorating finances of certain governments, the uptake of biosimilars as they become available and efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). see the global economic environment risk factor below. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with cgmps and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity as a result of natural or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, and counterfeit goods. regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cgmp requirements. failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions or voluntary recall of a product, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in february 2017, we received a warning letter from the fda communicating fda's view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira's manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. hospira is undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda. communication with the fda is ongoing. until the violations are corrected, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at mcpherson, kansas. outsourcing and enterprise resource planning we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, clinical lab services, non-clinical research, safety services, integrated facilities management and other areas. for example, in 2016, we placed the majority of our clinical trial execution services with four strategic clinical research organizations (cros). service performance issues with these cros may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery or deliverables, which may result in repercussions such as missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, erroneous data, supply disruptions, non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, with potential negative implications for our results. we continue to pursue a multi-year initiative to outsource some transaction-processing activities within certain accounting processes and are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. these are enhancements of ongoing activities to support the growth of our financial shared service capabilities and standardize our financial systems. if any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of our enterprise resource planning system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 14 table of contents collaborations and other relationships with third parties we depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. to achieve expected longer term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments in such transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings. we rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations. failure by one or more of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory or other obligations to pfizer, or any disruption in the relationships between pfizer and these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval or commercialization of our products and product candidates and could also result in non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. difficulties of our biopharmaceutical wholesalers in 2016, our largest biopharmaceutical wholesaler accounted for approximately 16% of our total revenues (and approximately 31% of our total u.s. revenues), and our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 39 % of our total revenues (and approximately 76 % of our total u.s. revenues). if one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, such wholesaler might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through collaborations, alliances, licenses, joint ventures, equity- or debt-based investments, mergers and acquisitions. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframe or at all, and integrate acquisitions. further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. additionally, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, including the possibility that expected synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the lack of adequate inspection at certain international postal facilities as counterfeit medicines are increasingly delivered direct to customers in small parcel packages; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. pfizer's global reputation makes its medicines prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the fda and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; working diligently to raise public awareness about the dangers of counterfeit medicines; and working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. no pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 15 table of contents assurance can be given, however, that our efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. risks related to government regulation and legal proceedings : pricing and reimbursement u.s. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls and limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. additionally, efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products could adversely affect our business if implemented. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in certain international markets, such as europe, japan, china, canada and south korea, governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control, particularly under recent global financing pressures. as a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain timely or adequate government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare reform/healthcare legislation the u.s. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. for example, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and established a major expansion of health care coverage, financed in part by a number of new rebates, discounts, and taxes that had a significant effect on our expenses and profitability. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges regulatory environment/pricing and access u.s. healthcare legislation section in our 2016 financial report and in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints in the united states . in 2017, we may face uncertainties because there likely will be federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. although the revenues generated for pfizer by the medicaid expansion and health insurance exchanges under the aca have been exceeded by the new rebates, discounts, and taxes, there is no assurance that repeal or replacement of the aca will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if replacement legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. other u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries (which is among the u.s. presidential administration's policy proposals), restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. u.s. deficit-reduction actions in the u.s., government actions to reduce the national deficit may affect payment by government programs for our products or services provided using our products. the congressional budget office routinely releases options for reducing the federal deficit, and the december 2016 release includes proposals to cap medicaid grants to the states, and to require manufacturers to pay a minimum rebate on drugs covered under part d of medicare for low-income beneficiaries. significant medicare reductions could also result if congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or it chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. these and any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 16 table of contents programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. substantial regulation we are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the u.s., principally by the fda and the dea, and foreign regulatory authorities. failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products innovation is critical to the success of our company. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data. there can be no assurance regarding our ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, or as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products, which will depend on the assessment by regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there is no assurance that we will be able to address the comments in complete response letters received by us with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of the fda, that any of our late stage pipeline products will receive regulatory approval and/or be commercially successful or that recently approved products will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. in addition, there are risks associated with interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. there are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect our business. further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. in addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance, in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales. the fda, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which has delayed approvals of new generic products. these delays have become longer, and while the fda has stated that it is taking steps to address the backlog of pending applications, continued approval delays may be experienced by generic drug applicants over the next few years. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase 4 trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. regulatory agencies in countries outside the u.s. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on the availability or commercial potential of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 17 table of contents perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall. interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply if we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official. if the interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt or increase enforcement efforts of new anti-bribery laws and regulations. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, changes to existing tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. for additional information, see the provision for taxes on income changes in tax law and new accounting standards sections, and notes to consolidated financial statements note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards in our 2016 financial report. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations. like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to investigations and extensive regulation by government agencies in the u.s., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. as a result, we have interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis. criminal charges, and substantial fines and/or civil penalties, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from government investigations. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the ffdca, the medicaid drug rebate program, the fcpa and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2016 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 18 table of contents risks related to intellectual property : patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in a policy of routine compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. in countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches to challenge our patent rights. most of the suits by generic drug manufacturers involve claims that patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer. also, counterclaims, as well as various independent actions, have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. we are also party to other patent damages suits in various jurisdictions pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. third party intellectual property claims a properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. we are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. part of our eh business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. these opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others. to achieve a first-to-market or early market position for generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars, we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party. claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. we are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars. once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 19 table of contents pharmaceuticals products or biosimilars, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., at-risk launch). if those proceedings ultimately determine that our products infringe the patent rights of third parties, we may face patent infringement damages, including the possibility of owing the third party a reasonable royalty or the lost profits from the sale of the branded product. remedies also may include or consist of an injunction preventing us from further manufacture or sales of the affected product during the term of one or more of the valid, infringed patents. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. risk related to technology : information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. as a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. risks related to our strategic transactions : strategic acquisitions the success of our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca's small molecule anti-infectives business will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from combining these businesses with pfizer. we, for example, may fail to achieve cost savings anticipated with the acquisition of hospira, or such cost savings within the expected time frame. similarly, the accretive impact anticipated from the acquisitions of hospira, anacor and medivation may not be realized or may be delayed. integration of these businesses may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. we also may fail to generate the revenue growth for the acquired business that we expected at the time of entering into the transaction. expected revenue from acquired products and product candidates also may be constrained by developments outside of our control. unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory hurdles and commercialization challenges regularly adversely impact revenue and income contribution from products and product candidates, including those acquired in these acquisitions. hospira, for example, has experienced manufacturing disruptions, device remediations and substantial regulatory scrutiny due to quality issues, including receiving a warning letter from the fda in february 2017 communicating fda ' view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira ' manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. manufacturing problems, as well as any corrective actions and their operational implementation, could adversely impact the revenue we generate from products acquired from hospira and result in substantial unanticipated costs. other risks: the global economic environment like all businesses, we are exposed to both global and industry-specific economic conditions. governments, corporations and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. examples include europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets. the u.s. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 20 table of contents increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage. the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions, but there can be no guarantee that changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. we continue to monitor credit, capital restrictions and economic situations in volatile regions and markets, especially where the ability to obtain u.s. dollars for local currency is unpredictable and challenging. we cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business. in addition, given that a significant portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the u.k., the formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu caused by brexit may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu. details on how brexit will be executed and the impact on the remaining eu countries will dictate how and whether the broader eu will be impacted and what the resulting impact on our business may be, especially in eu nations with weaker economic conditions such as greece. for additional information, see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources global economic conditions u.k. section in our 2016 financial report. we also continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts. if trade restrictions reduce global economic activity, or if other factors lead to a general economic downturn, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 50% of our total 2016 revenues were derived from international operations, including 21% from europe and 20% from japan and the rest of asia. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates, including those changes resulting from the volatility following the u.k. referendum in which voters approved brexit, can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations can impact our results and financial guidance. for additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2017 and analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2016 financial report. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2016 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2016 financial report and the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section in our 2016 financial report. those sections of our 2016 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. pfizer inc. 2016 form 10-k 21 table of contents cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions/intangible assets, goodwill and equity-method investments growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) our internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca's small molecule anti-infectives business. in addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charge may be significant. our other intangible assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions section in our 2016 financial report. we also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. an impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. we may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management. internal control over financial reporting the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or lapses in disclosure controls and procedures, could undermine the ability to provide accurate disclosure (including with respect to financial information) on a timely basis, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our disclosures (including with respect to financial information), require significant resources to remediate the lapse or deficiency, and expose us to legal or regulatory proceedings. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2016 financial report.risk factors 10 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. essential health the product categories in our eh business segment include: product category description key products global brands legacy established products includes products that have lost patent protection (excluding sterile injectable pharmaceuticals and peri-loe products). lipitor , premarin family and norvasc global brands peri-loe products includes products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia), viagra* , celebrex , pristiq , zyvox , vfend , revatio and inspra sterile injectable pharmaceuticals includes generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding peri-loe products). medrol , sulperazon , fragmin and tygacil biosimilars includes recombinant and monoclonal antibodies, primarily in inflammation, oncology and supportive care. inflectra / remsima (biosimilar infliximab) (u.s. and certain international markets), nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) (certain european, asian and africa/middle east markets) and retacrit (biosimilar epoetin zeta) (certain european and africa/middle east markets) pfizer centreone includes revenues from our contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including sterile injectables contract manufacturing, and revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements, including with zoetis inc. -- * viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. beginning in the first quarter of 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through december 2017, will be reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, total viagra worldwide revenues will be reported in eh from 2018 forward. through february 2, 2017, our eh business segment also included his, which includes medication management products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as intravenous infusion products, including large volume intravenous solutions and their associated administration sets. on february 3, 2017, we completed the sale of his to icu medical. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2b. sale of hospira infusion systems net assets to icu medical, inc. (eh). we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for one eh product in 2017 , two eh products in 2016 and three eh products in 2015 : essential health $1b+ products 2017 2016 2015 lipitor lipitor lipitor premarin family of products lyrica eh premarin family of products geographic revenues for essential health* * dev int'l = developed markets except u.s.; em mkts = emerging markets for a discussion of certain eh products and additional information regarding the revenues of our eh business, including revenues of major eh products, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues major products and revenues selected product discussion sections in our 2017 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our eh business, see the analysis of operating segment information essential health operating segment section of our 2017 financial report. for a discussion on the risks associated with our dependence on certain of our major products, see item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. collaboration and co-promotion agreements we are party to collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, including eliquis , xtandi and bavencio . eliquis has been jointly developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where pfizer commercializes eliquis and pays bms compensation based on a percentage of net sales. we have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi . subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. in addition, pfizer and astellas share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions net ). xtandi is an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells. bavencio is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. both companies jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-pd-l1 or anti-pd-1 pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 3 table of contents products from this collaboration. bavencio is currently approved in metastatic merkel cell carcinoma in the u.s., europe and japan, as well as received accelerated approval for second line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in the u.s. collaboration rights for enbrel (in the u.s. and canada), spiriva and rebif have expired. for additional information, including a description of certain of these expired collaboration and co-promotion agreements, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2017 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products and collaborations and other relationships with third parties sections below. research and development our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. our r&amp;d priorities and strategy our r&amp;d priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial potential, advancing our capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research and development primarily focuses on: biosimilars; inflammation and immunology; metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks; oncology; rare diseases; and vaccines. in january 2018, we announced our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts and re-allocate funding to other areas where we have stronger scientific leadership. we plan to create a dedicated neuroscience venture fund to support continued efforts to advance the field. the development of tanezumab and potential treatments for rare neuromuscular disorders is not impacted by this decision. while a significant portion of r&amp;d is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations, alliances and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. for additional information on these collaborations, agreements and investments, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy description of research and development operations section in our 2017 financial report. our r&amp;d operations we conduct r&amp;d internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&amp;d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations. research units within our worldwide research and development (wrd) organization are generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our ih business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&amp;d spending occurs, provide end-to-end scientific and technical expertise and other services to the various r&amp;d projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicinal chemistry, regulatory and drug safety, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. our r&amp;d organization within the eh business supports the large base of eh products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. our global product development organization is a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products and is generally responsible for the operational execution of clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our wrd and innovative portfolios. for discussion regarding these r&amp;d matrix organizations and additional information on our r&amp;d operations, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy description of research and development operations and costs and expenses research and development (r&amp;d) expenses sections in our 2017 financial report. our r&amp;d pipeline and competition innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. according to the pharmaceutical benchmarking forum, out of 17 compounds entering preclinical development, on average, only one is approved by a regulatory authority in a major market (u.s., the eu or japan). the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research and development. as of january 30, 2018 , we had the following number of projects in various stages of r&amp;d: development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. while these drug candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our r&amp;d efforts seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering potential new indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section in our 2017 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to r&amp;d. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. in addition, several of our competitors operate without large r&amp;d expenses and make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. for additional information, see the competition and item 1a. risk factors competitive products sections below. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 4 table of contents international operations we have significant operations outside the u.s. operations in developed and emerging markets are managed through our two business segments: ih and eh. emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. we sell our products in over 125 countries. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $26.5 billion accounted for 50% of our total revenues in 2017 . by total revenues, japan and china are our two largest national markets outside the u.s. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2017 financial report, and the table captioned revenues by segment and geography in our 2017 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries, including, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations and expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see item 1a. risk factors risks affecting international operations below. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints outside the united states below for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7f. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2017 financial report, as well as the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2017 financial report. those sections of our 2017 financial report are incorporated by reference. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 5 table of contents marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and pharmacists; managed care organizations that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems, pharmacy benefit managers and health plans; and employers and government agencies who hire mcos to provide health benefits to their employees. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that seeks to communicate the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of our vaccines products in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to the centers for disease control and prevention, wholesalers and individual provider offices. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and mco formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos. mcos use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we also work with mcos to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. in 2017 , our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 38% of our total revenues (and approximately 79% of our total u.s. revenues). % of 2017 total revenues and u.s. revenues from major biopharmaceutical wholesalers and other customers our global consumer healthcare business uses its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors and agents, principally in smaller markets. the advertising and promotions for our consumer healthcare business are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. our consumer healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the consumer healthcare business. patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. in various markets, a period of regulatory exclusivity may be provided to certain therapeutics upon approval. the scope and term of such exclusivity will vary but, in general, the period of regulatory exclusivity will run concurrently with the term of any existing patent rights associated with the therapeutic. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. unless otherwise indicated, the years set forth in the table below pertain to the basic product patent expiration for the respective products. patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year viagra 2012 (1) 2013 2013 (1) lyrica 2018 2014 (2) 2022 (3) chantix 2020 2021 2022 sutent 2021 2021 2024 ibrance 2023 2023 2023 inlyta 2025 2025 2025 xeljanz 2025 2027 (4) 2025 prevnar 13/prevenar 13 2026 2026 (5) 2029 eucrisa 2026 n/a (6) n/a (6) eliquis (7) 2026 2026 2026 xtandi (8) 2027 * (8) * (8) besponsa 2027 2023 2028 (9) xalkori 2029 2027 2028 bavencio (10) 2033 2032 2032 (1) in addition to the basic product patent covering viagra , which expired in 2012, viagra is covered by a u.s. method-of-treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with revatio (which has the same active ingredient as viagra ), expires in 2020. as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. the corresponding method-of-treatment patent covering viagra in japan expired in may 2014. (2) for lyrica , regulatory exclusivity in the eu expired in july 2014. (3) lyrica is covered by a japanese method-of-use patent which expires in 2022. the patent is currently subject to an invalidation action. (4) xeljanz eu expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (5) the eu patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 has been revoked following an opposition proceeding. this first instance decision has been appealed. there are other eu patents and pending applications covering the formulation and various aspects of the manufacturing process of prevenar 13 that remain in force. (6) eucrisa is not approved in the eu and japan. (7) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. (8) xtandi is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with astellas, who has exclusive commercialization rights for xtandi outside the u.s. (9) besponsa japan expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (10) bavencio is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. a number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. for additional information, including a description of certain of our expired co-promotion agreements, and a further discussion of our products experiencing, or expected to experience in 2018 , patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2017 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, xeljanz and xtandi . we also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a1. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2017 financial report. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; or conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. biotechnology products our biotechnology products, including benefix , refacto , xyntha , bavencio , prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and enbrel (we market enbrel outside the u.s. and canada), may face in the future, or already face, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). in the u.s., such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin , which was approved under the ffdca. biosimilars are versions of biologic medicines that have been developed and proven to be similar to the original biologic in terms of safety and efficacy and to have no clinically meaningful differences. biosimilars have the potential to offer high-quality, lower-cost alternatives to biologic medicines. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage in 2010 of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop biosimilar medicines. see item 1a. risk factors biotechnology products below. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products. likewise, as we develop and manufacture biosimilars and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. for additional information, see government regulation and price constraints intellectual property below. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. we also seek to continually pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 6 table of contents enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons' efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of alternative or next generation vaccines. for example, prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent or additional valent next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to the expiration of its patents, which may adversely affect our future results. our generics and biosimilars businesses compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generics and biosimilars manufacturers. globally, pfizer sells generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, as well as biosimilars. we seek to maximize the opportunity to establish a first-to-market or early market position for our generic injectable drugs and biosimilars, as a first-to-market position provides customers a lower-cost alternative immediately when available and also may provide us with potentially higher levels of sales and profitability until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. our consumer healthcare business faces competition from otc business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, and retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors' promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors' introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to otc switches). managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 291 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see government regulation and price constraints in the united states below), the marketing of prescription drugs to both consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continues to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. in addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, mcos transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. this financial disincentive is a tool for mcos to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the mcos. mcos also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, copay accumulator programs and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. we are closely monitoring these newer approaches and developing appropriate strategies to respond to them. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. mcos are currently evaluating the appropriate placement of biosimilars on their formularies. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. however, increasingly our branded products are being placed on the higher tiers or in a non-preferred status. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 7 table of contents mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. under the trump administration, there have been ongoing efforts to modify or repeal all or certain provisions of the aca, although the current likelihood of repeal of the aca appears low given the failure of the senate's multiple attempts to repeal various combinations of aca provisions. we are monitoring any such actions to see if any changes to the aca will be enacted that would impact our business. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that our branded products face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic competitors do not generally need to conduct clinical trials and can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. in a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. in 2017 , we experienced periodic shortages of select materials due to constrained capacity or operational challenges with the associated suppliers. supplier management activities are ongoing to work to ensure the necessary supply to meet our requirements for these materials. no significant impact to our operations is anticipated in 2018. government regulation and price constraints pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the countries in which they do business. certain laws and regulations that govern pfizer's business are discussed below. general . our business has been and will continue to be subject to numerous laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by various governmental bodies. for additional information on these proceedings and actions, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings in our 2017 financial report. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, warning letters and product recalls or seizures, delays in product approvals, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from such proceedings and actions. in the united states drug regulation . in the u.s., biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulations by the fda, including regulations that govern the testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling and storage of our products, record keeping, advertising and promotion. our products are also subject to post-market surveillance under the ffdca and its implementing regulations with respect to drugs, as well as the public health service act and its implementing regulations with respect to biologics. the fda also regulates our consumer healthcare products. other u.s. federal agencies, including the dea, also regulate certain of our products. the u.s. federal trade commission has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including otc drugs and dietary supplements. many of our activities also are subject to the jurisdiction of the sec. before a new biopharmaceutical product may be marketed in the u.s., the fda must approve an nda for a new drug or a bla for a biologic. the steps required before the fda will approve an nda or bla generally include preclinical studies followed by multiple stages of clinical trials conducted by the study sponsor; sponsor submission of the application to the fda for review; the fda's review of the data to assess the drug's safety and effectiveness; and the fda's inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured. before a generic drug may be marketed in the u.s., the fda must approve an anda. the anda review process typically does not require new preclinical and clinical studies, because it relies on the studies establishing safety and efficacy conducted for the referenced drug previously approved through the nda process. the anda process, however, does require the sponsor to conduct one or more bioequivalence studies to show that the anda drug is bioequivalent to the previously approved referenced brand drug, submission of an application to the fda for review, and the fda's inspection of the facilities where the product will be manufactured. as a condition of product approval, the fda may require a sponsor to conduct post-marketing clinical studies, known as phase 4 studies, and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of the approved product. the fda may limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-market studies and programs. any modifications to a drug or biologic, including new indications or changes to labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, may require the submission and approval of a new or supplemental nda or bla before the modification can be implemented, which may require that we develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. our ongoing manufacture and distribution of drugs and biologics is subject to continuing regulation by the fda, including recordkeeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences associated with the product, and adherence to cgmps, which regulate all aspects of the manufacturing process. we are also subject to numerous regulatory requirements relating to the advertising and promotion of drugs and biologics, including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising. failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and marketing of our products may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls or seizures, delays in product approvals, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. biosimilar regulation. the aca created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference, innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation and approval of new biosimilars. through those approvals and the issuance of draft and final guidance, the fda has begun to address open questions about the naming convention for biosimilars and the use of data from a non-u.s.-licensed comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. over the next several years, the fda is expected to issue additional draft and final guidance documents impacting biosimilars. in addition, in 2017, the biosimilar user fee act was reauthorized for a five-year period, which should lead to a significant increase in the fda's biosimilar user fee revenues, thereby providing the fda with additional resources to process biosimilar applications. also, there have been ongoing federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. while none of those efforts have focused on changes to the provisions of the aca related to the biosimilar regulatory framework, if those efforts continue in 2018 and if the aca is repealed, substantially modified, or invalidated, it is unclear what, if any, impact such action would have on biosimilar regulation. sales and marketing . the marketing practices of u.s. biopharmaceutical companies are generally subject to various federal and state healthcare laws that are intended to prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. these laws include anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a biopharmaceutical company from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration to generate business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular product. false claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for goods (including drugs) or services to third-party payers (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent and generally treat claims generated through kickbacks as false or fraudulent. violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including medicare and medicaid). the federal government and various states also have enacted laws to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies. the laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and healthcare providers; require disclosure to the federal or state government and public of such interactions; and/or require the adoption of compliance standards or programs. many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our activities could be subject to the penalties under the pertinent laws and regulations. pricing and reimbursement . pricing for our pharmaceutical products depends in part on government regulation. pfizer must offer discounted pricing or rebates on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program, the federal ceiling price drug pricing program, the 340b drug pricing program and the medicare part d program. pfizer must also report specific prices to government agencies under healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program and medicare part b. the calculations necessary to determine the prices reported are complex and the failure to report prices accurately may expose pfizer to penalties. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section in our 2017 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1g. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: revenues and trade accounts receivable in our 2017 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. government and private third-party payers routinely seek to manage utilization and control the costs of our products. for example, the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain pharmaceutical products under medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products in certain states. as another example, access to our products under the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans with which state medicaid agencies contract to provide services to medicaid beneficiaries. given certain states' current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers, who are the primary purchasers of our pharmaceutical products in the u.s., will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. recently, there has been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. there have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. recent legislation enacted includes, for example, a 2017 maryland law that prohibits a generic drug manufacturer or wholesale distributor from engaging in price gouging in the sale of certain off-patent or generic drugs, and a 2017 california law that requires manufacturers to provide advanced notification of price increases to certain purchasers and report specified drug pricing information to the state. certain state legislation, like the maryland law, has been subject to legal challenges . adoption of new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we will continue to work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. healthcare reform. the u.s. and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to regulate the healthcare industry. for example, in march 2010, the u.s. congress enacted the aca that expanded healthcare coverage through medicaid expansion and the implementation of the individual health insurance exchanges and which included changes to the coverage and reimbursement of drug products under government healthcare programs. under president trump's administration, there have been ongoing efforts to modify or repeal all or certain provisions of the aca, although the current likelihood of repeal of the aca appears low given the failure of the senate's multiple attempts to repeal various combinations of aca provisions. in october 2017, the president signed an executive order directing federal agencies to look for ways to authorize more health plans that could be less expensive because the plans would not have to meet all of the aca's coverage requirements, and announced that his administration will withhold the cost-sharing subsidies paid to health insurance exchange plans serving low-income enrollees. in december 2017, the comprehensive tax reform package signed into law, the tax cuts and jobs act, includes a provision that effectively repealed the aca's individual mandate by removing the penalties. these and similar actions by the administration are widely expected to lead to fewer americans having comprehensive aca-compliant health insurance, even in the absence of a full legislative repeal. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges under the aca are minor, so the impact of the recent administration actions is expected to be limited. we also may face uncertainties if our industry is looked to for savings to fund certain legislation, such as lifting the debt ceiling. one recent example is the bipartisan budget act of 2018, which increased the discount we pay in the medicare part d coverage gap from 50% to 70%, which will modestly reduce our future medicare part d revenues. we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any changes to the aca or other federal and state reform efforts. there is no assurance that federal or state healthcare reform will not adversely affect our future business and financial results. anti-corruption. the fcpa prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. new drug approvals. in the eu, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure, the decentralized procedure or the eu centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the centralized procedure, managed by the ema, results in one single authorization for the whole eu which provides the most rapid and efficient means of gaining approval across the eu and is the one most commonly used for new products. in japan, the pmda is the point of entry for businesses looking to sell drugs in the country. the pmda, which is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, post-marketing reviews and pharmaceuticals safety, must approve an application before a new drug product may be marketed in japan. the pmda also offers consultations on clinical trials of new drugs and provides advice on product classifications and approvals. historically, china's regulatory system has presented numerous challenges for the pharmaceutical industry, as its requirements for drug development and registration have not always been consistent with u.s. or other international standards. the cfda, however, has introduced reforms and draft reforms in recent years, which are discussed in more detail below, that attempt to address these challenges, with 2017 being an especially active year in this respect. in the past, it has been common to see treatments entering the chinese market two to eight years behind first marketing in the u.s. and europe, because historically china has only issued import drug licenses to treatments approved by mature regulatory authorities such as the fda or the ema. in addition, to obtain marketing approvals for new drugs in china, a clinical trial authorization issued by the cfda has historically been required for the conduct of phase i to iii clinical trials. applications for approval of imported drugs that included china-originated data in their multi-regional clinical trials and met the relevant technical review requirements were allowed to receive local clinical trial waivers on a case-by-case basis. historically, oral generics only had to undergo bioequivalence studies upon a filing for record with the cfda, while sterile injectable generics often needed local confirmatory trials for regulatory approval. a chinese drug license would only be granted if, following review, the cfda determines that the clinical data confirm the drug's safety and effectiveness. health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the fda or the ema) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. many authorities also require local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. these requirements delay marketing authorization in those countries relative to the u.s. and europe. pharmacovigilance. in the eu, there is detailed legislation and guidance on pharmacovigilance, which has been increased and strengthened in recent years. the ema's pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee has the responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. eu regulators may require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization safety and efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional extensive requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. outside developed markets such as the eu and japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are generally not as extensive, but there is a trend toward increasing regulation. pricing and reimbursement . in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. governments, including the different eu member states, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries, varying health outcomes and some third-party trade in our products between countries. in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and can hinder patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations (un) and the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 un high level panel report on access to medicines and 2017 oecd report on new health technologies managing access, value and sustainability ). government adoption of these recommendations may lead to additional pricing pressures. in japan, the government recently released a basic framework for pharmaceutical pricing that will lead to the adoption of cost effectiveness assessments in some form, quarterly pricing reviews for new indications, and severe narrowing of the criteria to gain a price maintenance premium. in china, despite removal of government-set price caps the government continues to exercise indirect price control by setting reimbursement standards through a negotiation mechanism between drug manufacturers and social insurance administrations. provincial biddings, cross-regional procurement and secondary hospital price negotiations are likely to intensify as government cost containment efforts continue. eu regulatory changes . the eu adopted a new clinical trials regulation in may 2014, which is expected to come into effect some time in late 2019. this regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the eu and will require increased public posting of clinical trial results. under its publication of clinical data for medicinal products for human use policy, the ema proactively publishes clinical trial data from application dossiers for new marketing authorizations, including data from trials taking place outside the eu, after the ema has made a decision on the marketing authorization. the policy includes limited exceptions for commercially confidential information and the exclusion of any protected personal data. brexit . in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as brexit . in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. formal negotiations officially started in june 2017. this process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. it was announced in november 2017 that the ema will be relocating from london, u.k. to amsterdam, netherlands by the expected date of brexit in march 2019. at present, it is still unclear whether and to what extent the u.k. will remain within or aligned to the eu system of medicines regulation, and/or what separate requirements will be imposed in the u.k. after it leaves the eu. for additional information on brexit, see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources global economic conditions u.k. in our 2017 financial report . china regulatory changes . in an effort to encourage drug innovation and reduce backlogs for existing applications for drug approval, the cfda has unveiled numerous reform initiatives for china's drug approval system, and engaged in significant efforts to build its capabilities. the cfda now divides drugs into new drugs and generics, with the definition for new drugs changed from china new to global new. this means that drugs previously approved in other markets (such as the u.s. or europe) will not be considered new drugs under china's regulatory regime, with the exception of drugs introduced within one year of approval in mature markets. this change in definition creates more opportunities for china's domestic drug manufacturers than for multinational firms, because multinational firms have historically had significant competitive advantage in successfully achieving regulatory approvals for drugs first approved outside of china. the 2017 revisions made clear, however, that regulatory approval from the fda or the ema would no longer be required for approval of imported drugs, though a notable exception persists for imported vaccines, which still require prior approval from a relevant regulatory agency. the marketing authorization holder system, which will allow for more flexibility in contract manufacturing arrangements and asset transfers, now applies to all drugs developed and manufactured in china, but not yet to imported drugs. while challenges remain, a number of other policy changes are streamlining and accelerating approvals of domestic and imported drugs in china. these reforms, along with china's june 2017 entry into the international council for harmonisation of technical requirements for pharmaceuticals for human use, are expected to pave the way for integration of cfda's regulations with global practices. these changes include introducing an umbrella clinical trial authorization for all three phases of registration studies (instead of the original phase-by-phase approvals), a filing/recordation system for bioequivalence studies on generics (instead of the original review and approval system), admitting more categories of drugs as innovative drugs eligible for the fast track/ green channel approval pathway and ongoing implementation of previously announced regulatory reforms. healthcare provider transparency and disclosures. a number of countries have implemented laws requiring (or their industry associations have recommended) disclosure of transfers of value made by pharmaceutical companies to healthcare providers. for example, the efpia's disclosure code requires all members, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations. intellectual property . the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2033 for least-developed countries. while we still face patent grant, enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, some countries have made improvements. we include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. while the global intellectual property environment has generally improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their local pharmaceutical industries. there is considerable political and economic pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards for obtaining patents and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance (and threat of issuance) of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries. in developed countries as well, including the eu, we are facing an increasingly challenging intellectual property environment. canada's intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity (eight years plus six-month pediatric extension), but it lacks the predictability and stability that otherwise comparable countries provide. through intense negotiations as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement (ceta), canadian authorities reluctantly agreed to introduce a right of appeal, a form of patent term restoration and to elevate the current data protection to a treaty obligation, further aligning its intellectual property regime to the eu. in particular, ceta article 20.25 provides sui generis protection for patent term extensions of two to five years for basic patents, subject to various rules and limitations. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established r&amp;d centers in china due to increased confidence in china's intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. trade representative's priority watch list for 2017. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., national health surveillance agency in brazil), restrictive patentability rules, ambiguity regarding the term of certain patents and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. in india, we have seen some progress in terms of expediting patent approval processes to reduce pendency rates and implementing training programs to enhance enforcement. despite these positive steps, gaps remain in terms of addressing longstanding intellectual property concerns. for example, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the tendency of the indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings (both pre- and post-grant), and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to safeguard many of our inventions and our investments in innovation. these policies heighten the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population. challenges against pfizer patents in india are ongoing. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17a3. commitments and contingencies legal proceedings commercial and other matters in our 2017 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2017 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $30 million ; and other environment-related expenses $142 million . while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not currently anticipate they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including the potential for additional regulatory requirements and associated costs, and the potential for more frequent and severe weather events and water availability challenges that may impact our facilities and those of our suppliers. for example, in 2017, our manufacturing and commercial operations in puerto rico were impacted by hurricanes. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business impact of recent hurricanes in puerto rico section of the 2017 financial report. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have a program for reviewing our vulnerability to potential weather-related risks and we update our assessments periodically. to date, we have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not anticipate that these risks will have a material impact on pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. tax matters in our 2017 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2017 , we employed approximately 90,200 people in our operations throughout the world. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 8 table of contents disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224 (the executive orders). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2017 , our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, medical products and consumer products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran. we ship pfizer products to iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2017 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2017 form 10-k and in our 2017 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, may, could, likely, ongoing, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, assume, target, forecast, guidance, goal, objective, aim and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of pfizer's products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, the disposition of the his net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the availability of raw materials for 2018 set forth in item 1. business raw materials in this 2017 form 10-k; the expected impact of the recent hurricanes in puerto rico set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business impact of recent hurricanes in puerto rico section in our 2017 financial report; the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our hospira manufacturing facilities set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business product manufacturing section in our 2017 financial report; the anticipated timeframe for any decision regarding strategic alternatives for pfizer consumer healthcare set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy our business development initiatives section in our 2017 financial report; our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment and the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in the 2017 financial report; the financial impact of the recently passed tax cuts and jobs act set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment, significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions income tax assets and liabilities, provision/(benefit) for taxes on income changes in tax laws and analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations sections in our 2017 financial report and in notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies and note 5. tax matters; plans relating to increasing investment in the u.s. following the expected positive net impact of the tax cuts and jobs act set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy capital allocation and expense management section in our 2017 financial report; the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2018 section in our 2017 financial report; the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, set forth in the costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives section in our 2017 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; the expected plan for repatriating the majority of our cash held internationally in 2018 set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources domestic and international short-term funds section in our 2017 financial report; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2017 financial report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company's pension and postretirement plans during 2018 set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2017 financial report. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected, projected or historical results. we note these factors pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 10 table of contents for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business, industry and operations : managed care trends consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private insurers. private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. in addition to formulary tier co-pay differentials, private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. they are also trying newer programs like copay accumulators to shift more of the cost burden to manufacturers and patients. this cost shifting has given consumers greater control of medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. mcos also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market concentrates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. the date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, upon the loss or expiration of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. a number of our products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. also, generic manufacturers have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, xeljanz and xtandi . our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering products for which we have licenses or co-promotion rights. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. the introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. we also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with products from competitors, including other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. the ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before the anticipated formation of the generic or biosimilar marketplace is important to that product's profitability. prices for products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following generic or biosimilar entry, and as additional companies receive approvals to market that product, competition intensifies. if a company's generic or biosimilar product can be first-to-market such that its only competition is the branded drug for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. with increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product market, the timeliness with which we can market new generic or biosimilar products will increase in importance. our success will depend on our ability to bring new products to market quickly. also, we may face access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive access at parity to the innovator product and remains in a disadvantaged position. for example, inflectra/remsima has experienced access challenges among commercial payers. in september 2017, pfizer filed suit in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against johnson &amp; johnson (j&amp;j) alleging that j&amp;j's exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning remicade (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 11 table of contents dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of nine biopharmaceutical products in 2017: prevnar 13/prevenar 13 , lyrica , ibrance , eliquis , enbrel , lipitor , xeljanz , viagra and sutent . those products accounted for 46% of our total revenues in 2017 . if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling, access pressures or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. for example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity section in our 2017 financial report. further, our alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. for additional information on recent losses of collaborations rights, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights recent losses of collaboration rights section in our 2017 financial report. research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. the average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the r&amp;d portfolio. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. there can be no assurance that these strategies will deliver the desired result, which could affect profitability in the future. biotechnology products abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. for example, enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed europe markets, which is expected to continue. the expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant regulatory exclusivity period has expired. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products. we are developing biosimilar medicines. the evolving pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products by the fda and regulatory authorities in certain other countries could diminish the value of our investments in biosimilars. other risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower prescriptions for biosimilars due to potential concerns over comparability with innovator medicines. see also the competitive products risk factor above. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 12 table of contents research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if it receives regulatory approval. for example, a wider range of studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process. however, each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit, the increased complexity of development and the potential delays to approval of the lead indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which such potential challenges are foreseen and addressed could affect our future results. risks affecting international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. however, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. even though we constantly monitor the evolving emerging markets for any unanticipated risk to pfizer, certain financial or political events in such markets, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. the impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals is increasing. for pfizer to date, a number of factors create a more challenging paradigm given our growing specialty business portfolio. these include formulary restrictions and dispensation barriers, such as step edits, leading to higher negotiated rebates or discounts to health plans and pbms in the u.s., as well as the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). see the global economic environment and strategic alternatives for pfizer consumer healthcare risk factors below. product manufacturing, sales and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, sales or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with cgmps and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity and commercial operations as a result of natural (including hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or man-made disasters at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, counterfeit goods and cyberattacks. regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with applicable cgmp requirements. failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment or voluntary recall of a product, any of pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 13 table of contents which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in february 2017, we received a warning letter from the fda communicating the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira's manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. we are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda. in january 2018, the fda upgraded the status of pfizer's mcpherson, kansas manufacturing facility to voluntary action indicated (vai) based on an october 2017 inspection. the change to vai status will lift the compliance hold that the fda placed on approval of pending applications, and is an important step toward resolving the issues cited in the february 2017 fda warning letter. in addition, in september 2017, meridian, a subsidiary of pfizer inc., received a warning letter from the fda asserting the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp and quality system regulations exist at meridian's manufacturing sites in st. louis, missouri. we are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda, and communication with the fda is ongoing. until the corrective actions are implemented and approved by the fda, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our st. louis, missouri sites. outsourcing and enterprise resource planning we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, clinical lab services, non-clinical research, safety services, integrated facilities management and other areas. for example, in 2017, we placed the majority of our clinical trial execution services with four clinical research organizations (cros). service performance issues with these cros may adversely impact the progression of our clinical trial programs. outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to sub-optimal quality of service delivery or deliverables, which may result in repercussions such as missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, erroneous data, supply disruptions, non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, with potential negative implications for our results. we are migrating to a consistent enterprise resource planning system across the organization. these are enhancements of ongoing activities to standardize our financial systems. if any difficulties in the migration to or in the operation of our enterprise resource planning system were to occur, they could adversely affect our operations, including, among other ways, through a failure to meet demand for our products, or adversely affect our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations. collaborations and other relationships with third parties we depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the research, development and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. to achieve expected longer term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments in such transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings. we rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development, manufacturing and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations. failure by one or more of these third parties to meet their contractual or other obligations to pfizer; failure of one or more of these parties to comply with applicable laws or regulations; or any disruption in the relationships between pfizer and one or more of these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval or commercialization of our products and product candidates and could also result in non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. biopharmaceutical wholesalers in 2017 , our largest biopharmaceutical wholesaler accounted for approximately 16% of our total revenues (and approximately 33% of our total u.s. revenues), and our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 38% of our total revenues (and approximately 79% of our total u.s. revenues). if one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, such wholesaler might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through collaborations, alliances, license and funding agreements, joint ventures, equity- or debt-based investments, mergers and acquisitions. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframe or at all, and integrate acquisitions. further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. legal proceedings or regulatory issues often arise as a result of activities that occurred at acquired companies, their partners and other third parties. in 2016, for example, we paid $784.6 million to resolve allegations related to wyeth's reporting of prices to the government with respect to protonix for activities that occurred prior to our pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 14 table of contents acquisition of wyeth. additionally, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, including the possibility that expected synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the lack of adequate inspection at certain international postal facilities as counterfeit medicines are increasingly delivered direct to customers in small parcel packages; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters compared to the large profits that can be earned by them from the sale of counterfeit medicines. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. pfizer's global reputation makes its medicines prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the fda and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; working diligently to raise public awareness about the dangers of counterfeit medicines; and working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. no assurance can be given, however, that our efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. risks related to government regulation and legal proceedings : pricing and reimbursement u.s. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls and limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payments for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in certain international markets, such as europe, japan, china, canada and south korea, governments have significant power as large single payers to regulate prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control, particularly under recent global financing pressures. as a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 15 table of contents countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare reform/healthcare legislation the u.s. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. for example, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and established a major expansion of healthcare coverage, financed in part by a number of new rebates, discounts, and taxes that had a significant effect on our expenses and profitability. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges regulatory environment/pricing and access u.s. healthcare legislation section in our 2017 financial report and in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints in the united states . we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. the likelihood of such a repeal currently appears low given the recent failure of the senate's multiple attempts to repeal various combinations of such aca provisions. in october 2017, the president signed an executive order directing federal agencies to look for ways to authorize more health plans that could be less expensive because the plans would not have to meet all of the aca's coverage requirements, and announced that his administration will withhold the cost-sharing subsidies paid to health insurance exchange plans serving low-income enrollees. these and similar actions by the administration are widely expected to lead to fewer americans having comprehensive aca-compliant health insurance, even in the absence of a legislative repeal. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges under the aca are minor, so the impact of the recent administration actions is expected to be limited. there is no assurance that any future replacement, modification or repeal of the aca will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. other u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries (which is among the u.s. presidential administration's policy proposals), restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. u.s. entitlement reform in the u.s., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. the congressional budget office routinely releases options for reducing federal spending, and the december 2016 release includes proposals to cap medicaid grants to the states, and to require manufacturers to pay a minimum rebate on drugs covered under part d of medicare for low-income beneficiaries. significant medicare reductions could also result if congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. these and any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. substantial regulation we are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the u.s., principally by the fda and the dea, and foreign regulatory authorities. failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data. there can be no assurance regarding our ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, or as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products, which will depend on the assessment by regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there is no assurance that we will be able to address pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 16 table of contents the comments received by us from regulatory authorities such as the fda and the ema with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of those authorities, that any of our pipeline products will receive regulatory approval and, if approved, be commercially successful or that recently approved products will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. in addition, there are risks associated with preliminary, early stage or interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which preliminary, early stage or interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the preliminary, early stage or interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. in addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. there are many considerations that can affect the marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials within the anticipated quality, time and cost guidelines or in compliance with applicable regulatory expectations, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect our business. further, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. in addition, failure to put in place adequate controls and/or resources for effective collection, reporting and management of adverse events from clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance, in compliance with current and evolving regulatory requirements could result in risks to patient safety, regulatory actions and risks to product sales. the fda, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may result in delayed approvals of new generic products. while the fda is taking steps to address the backlog of pending applications, continued approval delays may be experienced by generic drug applicants over the next few years. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase 4 trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. regulatory agencies in countries outside the u.s. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on the availability or commercial potential of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in updated labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall. interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply if we provide something of value to a healthcare professional, other healthcare provider and/or government official. if the interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt or increase enforcement efforts of new anti-bribery laws and regulations. requirements or industry standards in the u.s. and certain jurisdictions abroad that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to track and disclose financial interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare providers increase government and public scrutiny of such financial interactions. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, changes to existing tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory clarifications and/or interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of the recently passed tax cuts and jobs act), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. for additional information, see the provision/(benefit) for taxes on income changes in tax laws and new accounting standards sections, and notes to consolidated financial pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 17 table of contents statements note 1b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies: adoption of new accounting standards in 2017 in our 2017 financial report. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings, including patent, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment, tax litigation and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations. like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to investigations and extensive regulation by government agencies in the u.s., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. as a result, we have interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, as well as reputational harm and increased public interest in the matter could result from government investigations. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the ffdca, the medicaid drug rebate program, the fcpa and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2017 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. risks related to intellectual property : patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 18 table of contents our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in a policy of routine compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure or in the case of national emergencies. in countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches to challenge our patent rights. most of the suits involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer. independent actions have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. such claims may also be brought as counterclaims to actions we bring to enforce our patents. we are also party to other patent damages suits in various jurisdictions pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry. we also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by such proceedings, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio have been challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. the invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. third party intellectual property claims a properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. we are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. part of our eh business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. these opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others. to achieve a first-to-market or early market position for generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars, we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party. claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. we are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars. once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals products or biosimilars, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., at-risk launch). if one of our marketed products is found to infringe valid patent rights of a third party, such third party may be awarded significant damages, or we may be prevented from further sales of that product. such damages may be enhanced as much as three-fold in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries, like hospira, is found to have willfully infringed valid patent rights of a third party. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 19 table of contents risk related to technology : information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. as a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. risks related to our strategic transactions : strategic acquisitions the success of our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca's small molecule anti-infectives business will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from combining these businesses with pfizer. we, for example, may fail to achieve cost savings anticipated with the acquisition of hospira, or such cost savings within the expected time frame. similarly, the accretive impact anticipated from the acquisitions of hospira, anacor and medivation may not be realized or may be delayed. integration of these businesses may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. we also may fail to generate the revenue growth for the acquired business that we expected at the time of entering into the transaction. expected revenue from acquired products and product candidates also may be constrained by developments outside of our control. unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory hurdles and commercialization challenges may adversely impact revenue and income contribution from products and product candidates, including those acquired in these acquisitions. hospira, for example, has experienced manufacturing disruptions and substantial regulatory scrutiny due to quality issues, including receiving a warning letter from the fda in february 2017 communicating the fda ' view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira ' manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. manufacturing problems, as well as any corrective actions and their operational implementation, could adversely impact the revenue we generate from products acquired from hospira and result in substantial unanticipated costs. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business product manufacturing section in our 2017 financial report. also, the success of our acquisition of medivation depends on our ability to grow revenues for xtandi and expand xtandi into the non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer setting. strategic alternatives for pfizer consumer healthcare in october 2017, we announced plans to review a range of strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business, including a full or partial separation of the consumer healthcare business from pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction, as well as the possibility that we may ultimately determine to retain the business. we expect that a decision regarding strategic alternatives for the consumer healthcare business would be made in 2018. we will incur expenses in connection with the review of strategic alternatives and are likely to incur significant expenses if we determine to move forward with any strategic alternatives. our future results may be affected by the impact of our review and, if applicable, consummation of strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business, which are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alternatives we may pursue, the potential for disruption to our business and diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business, the possibility that such strategic alternatives will not be completed on terms that are advantageous to pfizer and the possibility that we may be unable to realize a higher value for our consumer healthcare through strategic alternatives. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 20 table of contents other risks: the global economic environment like all businesses, we are exposed to both global and industry-specific economic conditions. governments, corporations and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. examples include europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets. the u.s. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage. the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions, but there can be no guarantee that changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. we continue to monitor credit, capital restrictions and economic situations in volatile regions and markets, especially where the ability to obtain u.s. dollars for local currency is unpredictable and challenging. we cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business. in addition, given that a significant portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the u.k., the formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu caused by brexit may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. details on how brexit will be executed and the impact on the remaining eu countries will dictate how and whether the broader eu will be impacted and what the resulting impact on our business may be. for additional information, see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources global economic conditions u.k. section in our 2017 financial report. we also continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts. if trade restrictions reduce global economic activity, or if other factors lead to a general economic downturn, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 50% of our total 2017 revenues were derived from international operations, including 21% from europe and 20% from japan and the rest of asia. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations can impact our results and financial guidance. for additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2018 and analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2017 financial report. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2017 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7f. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2017 financial report and the pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 21 table of contents significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section in our 2017 financial report. those sections of our 2017 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) our internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives, such as our evaluation of strategic alternatives for our consumer healthcare business; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our acquisitions of hospira, anacor, medivation and astrazeneca's small molecule anti-infectives business. intangible assets, goodwill and equity-method investments our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charge may be significant. our other intangible assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions section in our 2017 financial report. we also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. an impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. we may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management. internal control over financial reporting the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or lapses in disclosure controls and procedures, could undermine the ability to provide accurate disclosure (including with respect to financial information) on a timely basis, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our disclosures (including with respect to financial information), require significant resources to remediate the lapse or deficiency, and expose us to legal or regulatory proceedings. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. pfizer inc. 2017 form 10-k 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2017 financial report.risk factors 10 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. essential health the product categories in our eh business segment included: product category description key products global brands legacy established products included products that have lost patent protection (excluding sterile injectable pharmaceuticals and peri-loe products). lipitor , premarin family and norvasc global brands peri-loe products included products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. lyrica (europe, russia, turkey, israel and central asia), viagra* , celebrex , pristiq , zyvox , vfend , revatio and inspra sterile injectable pharmaceuticals included generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding peri-loe products). medrol , sulperazon , fragmin and tygacil biosimilars included recombinant and monoclonal antibodies, primarily in inflammation, oncology and supportive care. inflectra / remsima (biosimilar infliximab) (u.s., canada, the eu, australia and certain international markets), nivestim/nivestym (biosimilar filgrastim) (u.s. and certain european, asian and africa/middle east markets), retacrit (biosimilar epoetin alfa-epbx/epoetin zeta) (u.s. and certain european and africa/middle east markets) and ixifi infliximab bs for i.v. infusion 100mg (japan) pfizer centreone included revenues from our contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including sterile injectables contract manufacturing, and revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements, including with zoetis inc. -- * viagra lost exclusivity in the u.s. in december 2017. in 2018, revenues for viagra in the u.s. and canada, which were reported in ih through 2017, were reported in eh (which reported all other viagra revenues excluding the u.s. and canada through 2017). therefore, in 2018, total viagra worldwide revenues were reported in eh. we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for two eh products in 2018 , one eh product in 2017 , and two eh products in 2016 : essential health $1b+ products 2018 2017 2016 lipitor lipitor lipitor norvasc premarin family of products for a discussion of certain eh products and additional information regarding the revenues of our eh business, including revenues by geography and of significant eh products, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information and the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview, revenues by segment and geography and revenues selected product discussion sections in our 2018 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our eh business, see the analysis of operating segment information essential health operating segment section of our 2018 financial report. for a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on certain of our major products, see item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 3 table of contents collaboration and co-promotion agreements we are party to collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, including, among others, eliquis , xtandi and bavencio . revenues from eliquis (except in certain markets where we have direct sales) , xtandi and bavencio are included in alliance revenues. eliquis has been jointly developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where pfizer commercializes eliquis and pays bms compensation based on a percentage of net sales. we have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi . subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. in addition, pfizer and astellas share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions net ). xtandi is an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells. bavencio (avelumab) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. both companies jointly fund the majority of development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any products containing avelumab from this collaboration. bavencio is currently approved in metastatic merkel cell carcinoma and for patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in certain countries and in development as a potential treatment for multiple other types of cancer. research and development innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. our r&amp;d priorities and strategy our r&amp;d priorities include: delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial potential; advancing our capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term leadership; and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. to that end, our research and development primarily focuses on: inflammation and immunology ; internal medicine ; oncology ; rare diseases ; vaccines ; and biosimilars. in january 2018, we announced our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts and re-allocate funding to other areas where we have stronger scientific leadership. the development of tanezumab and potential treatments for rare neuromuscular disorders is not impacted by this decision. in june 2018, we announced our plan to invest up to $600 million in biotechnology and other emerging growth companies through pfizer ventures, our venture investment vehicle. in september 2018, we and bain capital entered into a transaction to create a new biopharmaceutical company, cerevel, to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets primarily targeting disorders of the central nervous system, including parkinson's disease, epilepsy, alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and addiction. for additional information on the transaction with bain capital, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2b. acquisitions, divestitures, assets and liabilities held for sale, licensing arrangements, research and development and collaborative arrangements, equity-method investments and privately held investment: divestitures in our 2018 financial report. while a significant portion of r&amp;d is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaboration, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one or more of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and provide us the opportunity to advance our own products as well as the in-licensed or acquired products. our r&amp;d operations we conduct r&amp;d internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. in 2018, we continued to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&amp;d spending in 2018 was conducted through a number of matrix organizations: research units within our wrd organization were generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our ih business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our r&amp;d organization within the eh business supported the large base of eh products and helped develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. our global product development organization, a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products that was generally responsible for the operational execution of clinical trials for both early-stage assets in the wrd portfolio as well as late-stage assets in the innovative portfolio. for wrd assets, gpd worked in close collaboration with the early clinical development group, which has expertise in various disciplines such as biostatistics, clinical pharmacology and digital medicine. our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our r&amp;d spending occurred, provided technical expertise and other services to the various r&amp;d projects, and were organized into science-based functions (which were part of our wrd organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicine design, regulatory and drug safety, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, business technology and finance. at the beginning of 2019, we reorganized our r&amp;d operations as part of our organizing for growth reorganization: wrd is renamed worldwide research, development and medical (wrdm) as we have created a new worldwide medical &amp; safety organization that incorporates the former chief medical office as well as the worldwide safety function; the r&amp;d organization within the eh business has been integrated into the wrdm, gpd and upjohn organizations, including moving biosimilars into wrdm and gpd and realigning them with the relevant therapeutic areas (e.g., oncology and inflammation &amp; immunology); the regulatory function has been moved from the wrdm organization into the gpd organization; and late-stage portfolio spend has been moved from ih to gpd and from eh to gpd and upjohn. for discussion regarding these r&amp;d matrix organizations and additional information on our r&amp;d operations and expenses, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy description of research and development operations and costs and expenses research and development (r&amp;d) expenses sections in our 2018 financial report. our r&amp;d pipeline and competition the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research and development. the process from discovery to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. as of january 29, 2019 , we had the following number of projects in various stages of r&amp;d: development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. while these drug candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our r&amp;d efforts seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering potential new indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section in our 2018 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to r&amp;d. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. in addition, several of our competitors operate without large r&amp;d expenses and make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. for additional information, see the competition and item 1a. risk factors competitive products sections below. international operations we have significant operations outside the u.s. in 2018, operations in developed and emerging markets were managed through our two business segments: ih and eh. emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. urbanization in emerging markets, particularly in asia, is creating additional access opportunities for our medicines. we sell our products in over 125 countries. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $28.3 billion accounted for 53% of our total revenues in 2018 . by total revenues, china and japan are our two largest national markets outside the u.s. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2018 financial report, and the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview and revenues by segment and geography sections in our 2018 financial report. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 4 table of contents our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries, including, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations and expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see item 1a. risk factors international operations below. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states below for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7 f . financial instruments : derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2018 financial report, as well as the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2018 financial report. those sections of our 2018 financial report are incorporated by reference. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and pharmacists; mcos that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems, pharmacy benefit managers and health plans; and employers and government agencies who hire mcos to provide health benefits to their employees. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that seeks to communicate the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of our vaccines products in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention, wholesalers, individual provider offices, retail pharmacies, and integrated delivery networks. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and pbm formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the pbms. pbms use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we may also work with payers to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. in 2018 , our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenues (and approximately 76% of our total u.s. revenues). % of 2018 total revenues and u.s. revenues from major biopharmaceutical wholesalers and other customers our global consumer healthcare business uses its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and occasionally uses distributors and agents, principally in smaller markets. the advertising and promotions for our consumer healthcare business are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. our consumer healthcare business generates a significant portion of its sales from several large customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on the consumer healthcare business. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 5 table of contents patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states intellectual property below. in various markets, a period of regulatory exclusivity may be provided to certain therapeutics upon approval. the scope and term of such exclusivity will vary but, in general, the period of regulatory exclusivity will run concurrently with the term of any existing patent rights associated with the therapeutic. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. unless otherwise indicated, the years set forth in the table below pertain to the basic product patent expiration for the respective products. patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year lyrica 2019 (1) 2014 (2) 2022 (3) chantix/champix 2020 2021 2022 sutent 2021 2021 2024 ibrance 2023 2028 2028 inlyta 2025 2025 2025 xeljanz 2025 2028 (4) 2025 prevnar 13/prevenar 13 2026 2026 (5) 2029 eucrisa 2026 n/a (6) n/a (6) eliquis (7) 2026 2026 2026 xtandi (8) 2027 * (8) * (8) besponsa 2027 2023 2028 (9) xalkori 2029 2027 2028 bavencio (10) 2033 2032 2033 (1) in november 2018, the fda granted pediatric exclusivity for lyrica in the u.s. for an additional six months to june 2019; pediatric exclusivity applies to both the basic product patent for lyrica and a method of treatment patent, both of which expired in the u.s. in december 2018. (2) lyrica regulatory exclusivity in the eu expired in july 2014. (3) lyrica is covered by a japanese method-of-use patent which expires in 2022. the patent is currently subject to an invalidation action. (4) xeljanz eu expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (5) the eu patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 has been revoked following an opposition proceeding. this first instance decision has been appealed. there are other eu patents and pending applications covering the formulation and various aspects of the manufacturing process of prevenar 13 that remain in force. (6) eucrisa is not approved in the eu or japan. (7) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. (8) xtandi is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with astellas, which has exclusive commercialization rights for xtandi outside the u.s. (9) besponsa japan expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (10) bavencio is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. a number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. for additional information, including further discussion of our products experiencing, or expected to experience in 2019 , patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2018 financial report and item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, eliquis , xeljanz and xtandi . we also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17 a1 . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2018 financial report. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in revenues for that product in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; or conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. biologic products our biologic products, including benefix , refacto , xyntha , bavencio , prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and enbrel (we market enbrel outside the u.s. and canada), may face in the future, or already face, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). in the u.s., such biosimilars would reference our originator biologic products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin , that was approved under the ffdca. biosimilars are versions of biologic medicines that have been developed and proven to be highly similar to the original biologic in terms of safety and efficacy and that have no clinically meaningful differences in safety, purity or potency. biosimilars have the potential to offer high-quality, lower-cost alternatives to biologic medicines. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca in 2010, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. in europe, the european commission grants marketing authorizations for biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop and commercialize biosimilar medicines. see item 1a. risk factors biologic products below. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biologic products. likewise, as we develop, manufacture and seek to launch biosimilars, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, we have seen some improvement in global protection of intellectual property rights. for additional information, see item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states intellectual property below. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians, payers and global health authorities. we also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons' efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising; interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals; and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of alternative or next generation vaccines. for example, prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of alternative 13-valent or additional valent next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to the expiration of its patents, which may adversely affect our future results. our generics and biosimilars businesses compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generics and biosimilars manufacturers. globally, pfizer sells generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, as well as biosimilars. we seek to maximize the opportunity to establish a first-to- pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 6 table of contents market or early market position for our generic injectable drugs and biosimilars, as a first-to-market position provides customers a lower-cost alternative immediately when available and also may provide us with potentially higher levels of sales and profitability until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. our consumer healthcare business faces competition from otc business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, and retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors' promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors' introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (such as product labeling, patient access and prescription to otc switches). managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 298 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states below), the marketing of prescription drugs to both consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continues to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. in addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, mcos transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. this financial disincentive is a tool for mcos to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the mcos. mcos also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, copay accumulator programs and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. we are closely monitoring these newer approaches and developing appropriate strategies to respond to them. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. mcos are currently evaluating the appropriate placement of biosimilars on their formularies. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. however, increasingly our branded products are being placed on the higher tiers or in a non-preferred status. mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. we anticipate continued congressional interest in modifying provisions of the aca, particularly given the recent ruling in texas v. azar to invalidate the law as unconstitutional, though we believe it is unlikely congress will find bipartisan consensus to advance any significant changes to the aca until the legal process unfolds. we are monitoring any such actions to see if any changes to the aca will be enacted that would impact our business. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that our branded products face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 7 table of contents patents before their expiration. generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in china, for example, we are expected to face strong competition by certain generic manufacturers in 2019, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. in a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. favoring generics may reduce sales of our branded products. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. in 2018 , we experienced periodic shortages of select materials due to constrained capacity or operational challenges with the associated suppliers. supplier management activities are ongoing to work to ensure the necessary supply to meet our requirements for these materials. no significant impact to our operations is anticipated in 2019. government regulation and price constraints pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the countries in which they do business. certain laws and regulations that govern pfizer's business are discussed below. general . our business has been and will continue to be subject to numerous laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by various governmental bodies. for additional information on these proceedings and actions, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17 a . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings in our 2018 financial report. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, warning letters and product recalls or seizures, delays in product approvals, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from such proceedings and actions. in the united states drug regulation . in the u.s., biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and postmarket regulation by the fda, including regulations that govern, among other things, the safety and efficacy of our medicines, clinical trials, advertising and promotion, manufacturing, labeling and record keeping. our products are also subject to postmarket surveillance under the ffdca and its implementing regulations with respect to drugs, as well as the public health service act and its implementing regulations with respect to biologics. our consumer healthcare products are also subject to fda regulation. other u.s. federal agencies, including the dea, also regulate certain of our products. the u.s. federal trade commission has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including otc drugs and dietary supplements. many of our activities also are subject to the jurisdiction of the sec. biopharmaceutical companies seeking to market a product in the u.s. must first test the product to demonstrate that it is safe and effective for its intended use. if, after evaluation, the fda determines the product is safe (i.e., its benefits outweigh its known risks) and effective, then the fda will approve the product for marketing, issuing a nda or bla as appropriate. companies seeking to market a generic prescription drug must scientifically demonstrate that the generic drug is bioequivalent to the innovator drug. the anda, or generic drug application, must show, among other things, that the generic drug is pharmaceutically equivalent to the brand, the manufacturer is capable of making the drug correctly, and the proposed label is the same as that of the innovator/brand drug's label. even after a drug or biologic is approved for marketing, it may still be subject to postmarketing commitments or postmarketing requirements. postmarketing commitments are studies or clinical trials that the drug or biologic sponsor has agreed to conduct, but are not required by law and/or regulation. postmarketing requirements include studies and clinical trials that sponsors are required to conduct, by law and/or regulation, as a condition of approval. postmarketing studies or clinical trials can be required in order to assess a known risk or demonstrate clinical benefit for drugs or biologics approved pursuant to accelerated approval. if a company fails to meet its postmarketing requirements, the fda may assess a civil monetary penalty, issue a warning letter or deem the drug or biologic misbranded. once a drug or biologic is approved, any modifications to the product must be notified to the fda and may also require a manufacturer to submit additional studies or conduct clinical trials. in addition, we are also required to report adverse events and comply with cgmps, as well as advertising and promotion regulations. failure to comply with the ffdca may subject us to administrative and/or judicial sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls, seizures, delays in product approvals, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. biosimilar regulation. the aca created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation and approval of new biosimilars. through fda approvals and the issuance of draft and final guidance, the fda has addressed a number of issues related to the biosimilars approval pathway, such as the labeling expectations for biosimilars. over the next several years, the fda is expected to issue additional draft and final guidance documents impacting biosimilars, including updated draft or final guidance regarding the standards for demonstrating interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. in addition, in 2017, the biosimilar user fee act was reauthorized for a five-year period, which should lead to a significant increase in the fda's biosimilar user fee revenues, thereby providing the fda with additional resources to process biosimilar applications. for example, in the first year under the newly authorized fee structure, the fda estimates its revenues from biosimilar user fees will increase by more than $10 million. sales and marketing laws and regulations . the marketing practices of u.s. biopharmaceutical companies are generally subject to various federal and state healthcare laws that are intended, among other things, to prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. these laws include anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a biopharmaceutical company from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying anything of value to generate business, including purchasing or prescribing of a particular product. false claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for goods (including drugs or biologics) or services to third-party payers (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent and generally treat claims generated through kickbacks as false or fraudulent. violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including medicare and medicaid). the federal government and various states also have enacted laws to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies. the laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and healthcare providers, require disclosure to the federal or state government and the public of such interactions, and/or require the adoption of compliance standards or programs. many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our activities could be subject to the penalties under the pertinent laws and regulations. pricing and reimbursement . pricing and reimbursement for our pharmaceutical products depends in part on government regulation. pfizer must offer discounted pricing or rebates on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program, the federal ceiling price drug pricing program, the 340b drug pricing program and the medicare part d program. pfizer must also report specific prices to government agencies under healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program and medicare part b. the calculations necessary to determine the prices reported are complex and the failure to report prices accurately may expose pfizer to penalties. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section in our 2018 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 g . basis of presentation and significant accounting policies : revenues and trade accounts receivable in our 2018 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. government and private third-party payers routinely seek to manage utilization and control the costs of our products. for example, the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain pharmaceutical products under medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products under certain state medicaid programs. as another example, access to our products under the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans with which state medicaid agencies contract to provide services to medicaid beneficiaries. given certain states' current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers, who are the primary purchasers of our pharmaceutical products in the u.s., will increase pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. recently, there has been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. at the federal level, for example, in may 2018, president trump released his blueprint to lower drug prices and reduce out-of-pocket costs (blueprint). certain proposals in the blueprint, and related drug pricing measures proposed since the blueprint, could cause significant operational and reimbursement changes for the pharmaceutical industry. as another example, in october 2018, the centers for medicare and medicaid services solicited public comments on potential changes to payment for certain medicare part b drugs, including reducing the medicare payment amount for selected medicare part b drugs to more closely align with international drug prices. in addition, in january 2019, the white house office of management and budget released the long awaited proposed rule submitted by the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services to remove safe harbor protections for drug rebates paid to insurance plans and pbms for medicare part d and managed medicaid and to create new safe harbors. among other changes, the proposed rule would explicitly exclude the reductions in price offered by drug manufacturers to pbms in medicare part d and managed medicaid plans from protection under the discount safe harbor. it would also create a new safe harbor designed specifically for price reductions in pharmaceutical products, but only those that are fully reflected in the price to the patient at the pharmacy counter. additionally, a new safe harbor was proposed to protect administrative fees paid to pbms, which must be at fair market value, a fixed fee and not based upon a percentage of volume or list price. manufacturers could continue to negotiate price reductions with pbms and medicare part d and managed medicaid plans if their reductions meet that criterion. the proposed rule represents a large step toward significantly altering the current rebate model in place with mcos. we are in the process of evaluating the implications of the proposed rule on our operations and processes, as well as the infrastructure that will be required in order to implement the rule once it is finalized. there have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. certain state legislation has been subject to legal challenges. adoption of new legislation regulating drug pricing at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we will continue to work with lawmakers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. healthcare reform. there have been significant efforts at the federal and state levels to reform the healthcare system by enhancing access to healthcare, improving the delivery of healthcare and further rationalizing payment for healthcare. for example, we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. for example, tax reform legislation enacted at the end of 2017 eliminates the tax penalty for individuals who do not maintain sufficient health insurance coverage beginning in 2019 (the so-called individual mandate ). we anticipate continued congressional interest in modifying provisions of the aca, particularly given the recent ruling in texas v. azar to invalidate the law as unconstitutional. at this time, the law remains in effect pending appeals of the decision. given the outcomes of the 2018 u.s. midterm elections with democrats taking over the u.s. house of representatives and republicans growing their majority in the u.s. senate, we believe it is unlikely congress will find bipartisan consensus to advance any significant changes to the aca until the legal process unfolds. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and medicaid expansion under the aca are not material, so the impact of the change in law and similar recent administration actions is expected to be limited. any future replacement, modification or repeal of the aca may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage. as another example, the bipartisan budget act of 2018, which increased the discount we pay in the medicare part d coverage gap from 50% to 70%, will modestly increase our future medicare part d rebates. any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results. anti-corruption. the fcpa prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. new drug approvals. in the eu, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure, the decentralized procedure or the eu centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the centralized procedure, managed by the ema, results in one single authorization for the whole eu, which provides the most rapid and efficient means of gaining approval across the eu and is the one most commonly used for new products. in china, the regulatory system historically presented numerous challenges for the pharmaceutical industry, as its requirements for drug development and registration were often inconsistent with u.s. or other international standards. in recent years, however, china has introduced reforms and draft reforms, which are discussed in more detail below, that attempt to address these challenges. 2018 was another active year in this respect, with a number of reforms coming into effect, and more proposals and drafts being issued for consultation. also, in 2018, a significant government restructuring resulted in the creation of the national medical product administration (nmpa), replacing the former cfda. in japan, the pmda is the point of entry for businesses looking to sell drugs in the country. the pmda, which is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, postmarketing reviews and pharmaceuticals safety, must approve an application before a new drug product may be marketed in japan. the pmda also offers consultations on clinical trials of new drugs and provides advice on product classifications and approvals. health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the fda or the ema) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. many authorities also require local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. pharmacovigilance. in the eu, detailed legislation and guidance on pharmacovigilance has increased and strengthened in recent years. the ema's pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee has the responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. eu regulators may require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization safety and efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional extensive requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. outside developed markets such as the eu and japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are generally not as extensive, but there is a trend toward increasing regulation. pricing and reimbursement . in europe, japan, china, canada, south korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, forced localization as a condition of market access and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). this international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and incomplete value assessments across countries has led to varying health outcomes and some third-party trade in our products between countries. in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations (un), including the world health organization (who), and the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 un high level panel report on access to medicines ). late in 2018, two new reports critical of the pharmaceutical industry's pricing practices were published: oecd's pharmaceutical innovation and access to medicines and who's pricing of cancer medicines and its impacts . these reports and upcoming public forums focused on their recommendations will continue to exert additional pricing pressures. in china, pricing pressures have increased in recent years. top chinese government officials have consistently emphasized the importance of improved health outcomes, the need for healthcare reform and decreased drug prices as a key indicator of progress towards reform. even though the government provides basic health insurance for the vast majority of chinese citizens, the insurance is not adequate to cover innovative medicines. alternative funding sources for innovative medicines remain suboptimal, as private health insurance growth is restrained by issues with access to healthcare data, potential corruption concerns and control over providers. in 2017 and 2018, chinese authorities entered into special negotiations with china's national medical security bureau to add approximately 60 high-value drugs (mainly oncology medicines) to the national reimbursement drug list. prices for drugs were reduced dramatically through these negotiations, some by as much as 70 percent. while these negotiations included a path to access for companies, market access is not strictly assured. in addition, significant questions about the processes and negotiations for provincial tendering remain. in addition, multi-layered negotiations are required across provincial, municipal and hospital levels, and the linkage of price negotiations to reimbursement is inconsistent. in the off-patent space, in 2013, china began to implement a quality consistency (qce) process in order to improve the quality of domestically-manufactured generic drugs, primarily by requiring such drugs to pass a test to assess their bioequivalence to a qualified reference drug (typically the originator drug). in 2018, numerous local generics were officially deemed bioequivalent under the qce. a pilot project for centralized procurement of 31 categories of drugs covering 11 major chinese cities now drives patients to generics that have passed the qce, which has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent drugs. in japan, the access environment for innovative medicines continued to deteriorate in 2018 with tighter restrictions around the criteria to gain a price maintenance premium and a push by the japanese government to adopt healthcare technology assessments based on rigid cost-effectiveness criteria for re-pricing of reimbursed medicines. additionally, the japanese government has officially requested the ministry of health, labour and welfare to look into using cost-effectiveness analyses to make reimbursement decisions at the launch of a drug. eu regulatory changes . the eu adopted a new clinical trials regulation in may 2014, which is expected to come into effect sometime in late 2019. this regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the governance of clinical trials in the eu and will require increased public posting of clinical trial results. brexit . in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as brexit . in march 2017, the u.k. government formally notified the european council of its intention to leave the eu after it triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu. formal negotiations officially started in june 2017. this process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. the ema will be relocating from london, u.k. to amsterdam, netherlands by the scheduled date of brexit at the end of march 2019. at present, it is still unclear whether and to what extent the u.k. will remain within or aligned to the eu system of medicines regulation, and/or what separate requirements will be imposed in the u.k. after it leaves the eu. however, both the u.k. and the eu have issued detailed guidance for the industry on how medicines, medical devices and clinical trials will be separately regulated in their respective territories in the event of a hard brexit', meaning an outcome where no negotiated settlement is reached. for additional information on brexit, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment the global economic environment in our 2018 financial report . china regulatory changes . in an effort to encourage drug innovation and reduce backlogs for existing applications for drug approval, the nmpa has unveiled numerous reform initiatives for china's drug approval system, and engaged in significant efforts to build its capabilities. the nmpa now divides drugs into new drugs and generics, with the definition for new drugs changed from china new to global new. this means that drugs previously approved in other markets (such as the u.s. or europe) will not be considered new drugs under china's regulatory regime. this change in definition creates more opportunities for china's domestic drug manufacturers than for multinational firms, because multinational firms have historically had significant competitive advantage in successfully achieving regulatory approvals for drugs first approved outside of china. revisions in 2017 made clear, however, that regulatory approval from the fda or the ema would no longer be required for approval of imported drugs, though a notable exception persists for imported vaccines, which still require prior approval from a relevant regulatory agency. the marketing authorization holder system, which will allow for more flexibility in contract manufacturing arrangements and asset transfers, is now being piloted in ten chinese provinces, but not yet for imported drugs. while challenges remain, a number of other policy changes are streamlining and accelerating approvals of domestic and imported drugs in china. these reforms, along with china's june 2018 entry into the management committee of the international council for harmonisation of technical requirements for pharmaceuticals for human use, are expected to pave the way for integration of chinese regulations with global practices. these changes include introducing an umbrella clinical trial authorization for all three phases of registration studies (instead of the original phase-by-phase approvals), a filing/recordation system for bioequivalence studies on generics (instead of the original review and approval system), admitting more categories of drugs as innovative drugs eligible for the fast track/ green channel approval pathway and ongoing implementation of previously announced regulatory reforms. in 2018, the review timeline for clinical trial authorizations was shortened to 60 working days due to the introduction of a clinical trial notification system, and china's fast track policy was finalized, for a specific group of products selected by the center for drug evaluation, part of the nmpa. in addition, china's human genetic resources administrative office strictly scrutinizes clinical trials involving the collection, storage, export and use of human genetic resources and relevant deriving data from the chinese population, adding an extra layer of review in addition to that of the nmpa. healthcare provider transparency and disclosures. a number of countries have implemented laws requiring (or their industry associations have recommended) disclosure of transfers of value made by pharmaceutical companies to healthcare providers. for example, the efpia's disclosure code requires all members, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations. intellectual property . the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property rights (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2033 for least-developed countries. while we still face patent grant, enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, some countries have made improvements. we include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. while the global intellectual property environment has generally improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their local pharmaceutical industries. considerable political and economic pressure exists to weaken current intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards for obtaining patents and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, issuance (and threat of issuance) of compulsory licenses, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries. in developed countries as well, including the eu, we are facing an increasingly challenging intellectual property environment. canada's intellectual property regime for drugs provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity (currently eight years plus six-month pediatric extension), but it lacks the predictability and stability that otherwise comparable countries provide. through intense negotiations as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement (ceta), canadian authorities have amended the patent medicines (notice of compliance) regulations to provide the innovator a right of appeal, and canada now provides sui generis protection for patent term extensions of up to two years for basic patents. furthermore, the us-mexico-canada agreement (usmca), if ratified and implemented, would establish 10 years of data protection for biologics and patent term adjustment for unreasonable or unnecessary delays in the grant of patents. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established r&amp;d centers in china due to increased confidence in china's intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. trade representative's priority watch list for 2018. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., national health surveillance agency in brazil), restrictive patentability rules, ambiguity regarding the term of certain patents and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. additionally, an increased threat of issuance of compulsory licenses for biopharmaceutical products exists, which adds to business uncertainty. in india, we have seen some progress in terms of expediting patent approval processes to reduce pendency rates and implementing training programs to enhance enforcement. despite these positive steps, gaps remain in terms of addressing longstanding intellectual property concerns. for example, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the tendency of the indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings (both pre- and post-grant), and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to safeguard many of our inventions and our investments in innovation. these policies heighten the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population. challenges against pfizer patents in india are ongoing. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17 a3 . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings commercial and other matters in our 2018 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2018 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $33 million ; and other environment-related expenses $162 million . while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not currently anticipate they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including the potential for additional regulatory requirements and associated costs, and the potential for more frequent and severe weather events and water availability challenges that may impact our facilities and those of our suppliers. for example, in 2017, our manufacturing and commercial operations in puerto rico were impacted by hurricanes. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business impact of hurricanes in puerto rico section of the 2018 financial report. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have a program for reviewing our vulnerability to potential weather-related risks and we update our assessments periodically. to date, we have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not anticipate that these risks will have a material impact on pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5 . tax matters in our 2018 financial report is incorporated by reference. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 8 table of contents employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we generally believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 92,400 people in our operations throughout the world. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224 (the executive orders). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2018 , our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, medical products and consumer products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran. we ship pfizer products to iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2018 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2018 form 10-k and in our 2018 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, may, could, likely, ongoing, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, assume, target, forecast, guidance, goal, objective, aim, seek and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of pfizer's products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, our acquisitions and other business development activities, our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities or prospects, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, our proposed transaction with gsk to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture, prospective products or product approvals, our product pipeline, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the availability of raw materials for 2019 set forth in item 1. business raw materials in this 2018 form 10-k; the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our hospira manufacturing facilities and the expectations related to our supply issues set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business product manufacturing section in our 2018 financial report; the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year and our expectations regarding growth set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy organizing for growth section in our 2018 financial report; the expected timing of completion and benefits of our proposed transaction with gsk to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture set forth in the item 1. business about pfizer and innovative health , and item 1a. risk factors sections in this 2018 form 10-k and in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business , our strategy and our business development initiatives sections in our 2018 financial report; the anticipated costs related to our preparations for brexit set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment the global economic environment section in our 2018 financial report; our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment the global economic environment and the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2018 financial report; our plans for increasing investment in the u.s. set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy capital allocation and expense management increasing investment in the u.s. section in our 2018 financial report; the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2019 section in our 2018 financial report; the anticipated costs and savings, including from our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, as well as from our organizing for growth initiative, set forth in the costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives section in our 2018 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 3 . restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives ; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2018 financial report; and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the company's pension, postretirement and deferred compensation plans during 2019 set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11 . pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2018 financial report. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected, projected or historical results. we note these factors pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 10 table of contents for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business, industry and operations : managed care trends private third-party payers and other managed care entities, such as pharmacy benefit managers, continue to take action to manage the utilization of drugs and control the cost of drugs. consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private third-party payers. private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by taking into account discounts in connection with decisions about formulary inclusion or favorable formulary placement. failure to obtain or maintain timely adequate pricing or favorable formulary placement for our products, or failure to obtain such formulary placement at favorable pricing, could adversely impact revenue. private third-party payers, including self-insured employers, often implement formularies with copayment tiers to encourage utilization of certain drugs and have also been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. private third-party payers are also implementing new initiatives like so-called copay accumulators (policies that provide that the value of copay assistance does not count as out-of-pocket costs that are applied toward deductibles) that can shift more of the cost burden to manufacturers and patients. this cost shifting has increased consumer interest and input in medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. private third-party payers also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. private third-party payers also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market consolidates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. the date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, upon the loss or expiration of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time, which can adversely affect our business. a number of our products are expected to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. in china, for example, we are expected to face strong competition by certain generic manufacturers in 2019, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products. also, generic manufacturers have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, eliquis, xeljanz and xtandi . our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering products for which we have licenses or co-promotion rights. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. the introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development. some of these have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. we also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with products from competitors, including other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. the ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before the anticipated formation of the generic or biosimilar marketplace is important to that product's profitability. prices for products typically decline, sometimes dramatically, following generic or biosimilar entry, and as additional companies receive approvals to market that product, competition intensifies. if a company's generic or biosimilar product can be first-to-market such that its only competition is the branded drug for a period of time, higher levels of sales and profitability can be achieved until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. with increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product market, the timeliness with which we can market new generic or biosimilar products will increase in importance. our success will depend on our ability to bring new products to market quickly. the fda, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 11 table of contents experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may result in delayed approvals of new generic products. while the fda is taking steps to address the backlog of pending applications, continued approval delays may be experienced by generic drug applicants over the next few years. also, we may face access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive appropriate formulary access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to the innovator product. for example, inflectra/remsima has experienced access challenges among commercial payers. in september 2017, pfizer filed suit in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against johnson &amp; johnson (j&amp;j) alleging that j&amp;j's exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning remicade (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of ten biopharmaceutical products in 2018: prevnar 13/prevenar 13 , lyrica , ibrance , eliquis , enbrel , lipitor , xeljanz , chantix/champix, sutent and norvasc . those products accounted for 51% of our total revenues in 2018 . if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling, pricing and access pressures, supply shortages or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. a number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years (including some of our billion-dollar and previously billion-dollar products), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. for example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. in addition, the basic product patent for lyrica in the u.s. will expire in june 2019, which includes the fda's grant of pediatric exclusivity that extended the period of market exclusivity in the u.s. for lyrica for an additional six months from december 2018. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity section in our 2018 financial report. further, our alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. the average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the r&amp;d portfolio. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the scientific approach may not succeed for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near-term and over time. these strategies may not deliver the desired result, which could affect growth and profitability in the future. biologic products abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in many international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biologic products, our biologic products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. for example, enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed europe markets. the expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant regulatory exclusivity period has expired. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biologic products. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 12 table of contents we are developing biosimilar medicines. risks related to our development of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity (or, as in the case of inflectra/remsima , exclusionary contracting by the originator that leads to a lack of payer coverage and lower uptake), coupled with high costs associated with clinical development or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower uptake for biosimilars due to various factors that may vary for different biosimilars (e.g., anti-competitive practices, physician reluctance to prescribe biosimilars for existing patients taking the originator product, or misaligned financial incentives). see also the competitive products risk factor above. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if it receives regulatory approval. for example, a wider range of studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process. however, each additional indication must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit, the increased complexity of development and manufacturing and the potential delays to approval of the lead indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which such potential challenges are foreseen and adequately addressed could affect our future results. international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, economic conditions, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. however, our strategies in emerging markets may not be successful and these countries may not continue to sustain these growth rates. for example, even though china is growing faster than most emerging markets, we face certain challenges in china due to government imposed pricing controls affecting certain pfizer medicines. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. even though we constantly monitor the evolving emerging markets for any unanticipated risk to pfizer, certain financial or political events in such markets, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. the impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals is increasing. for pfizer to date, a number of factors create a more challenging paradigm given our growing specialty business portfolio. these include formulary restrictions and increasing use of utilization management tools such as step edits, which can lead to higher negotiated rebates or discounts to health plans and pbms in the u.s., as well as the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare business may be impacted by economic volatility, the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors' branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal, reformulation and/or relabeling of certain products (e.g., cough/cold products). see consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk and the global economic environment risk factors below. product manufacturing, sales and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, sales or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, work stoppages or strikes, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with cgmps and pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 13 table of contents other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); risks to supply chain continuity and commercial operations as a result of natural (including hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or man-made disasters (including arson or terrorist attacks) at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; or failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against intentional and criminal acts such as economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, counterfeit goods and cyberattacks. regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with applicable cgmp requirements. failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment, voluntary recall of a product or failure to secure product approvals, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in february 2017, for example, we received a warning letter from the fda communicating the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira's manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. we are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda. in january 2018, the fda upgraded the status of pfizer's mcpherson manufacturing facility to vai based on an october 2017 inspection. the change to vai status lifted the compliance hold that the fda placed on approval of pending applications. in june 2018, the fda informed us that it had completed an evaluation of corrective actions and closed out the february 2017 warning letter issued to our mcpherson manufacturing facility after determining that we had addressed the violations contained in the warning letter. in july-august 2018, the fda conducted a follow-up inspection of our mcpherson facility and issued an inspection report noting several findings. pfizer responded to the fda's findings, and is in the process of implementing a corrective and preventive action plan to address the fda's concerns. on the basis of the july-august 2018 fda inspection, the fda changed the inspection classification status of the mcpherson site to official action indicated (oai). future fda inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of these corrections. communication with the fda on the status of the mcpherson site is ongoing. as a result of this status, the fda has refused, and may continue to refuse, to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our mcpherson site until the site status is upgraded, which will require a successful re-inspection by the fda. the product shortages we have been experiencing within our portfolio are primarily for products from the legacy hospira portfolio and are largely driven by capacity constraints, technical issues and supplier quality concerns. we continue to remediate issues at legacy hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables. any continuing product shortage interruption at these manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results, specifically in our sterile injectable pharmaceuticals portfolio. in addition, in september 2017, meridian medical technologies, inc., a subsidiary of pfizer inc., received a warning letter from the fda asserting the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp and quality system regulations exist at meridian's manufacturing sites in st. louis, missouri. meridian responded to the warning letter and committed to making improvements across the sites. we are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda, and communication with the fda is ongoing. until the corrective actions are implemented and confirmed by the fda following a re-inspection, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our st. louis sites. outsourcing we outsource certain services to other parties, including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial recruitment and execution, clinical lab services, non-clinical research, safety services, integrated facilities management and other areas. outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to suboptimal quality of service delivery or deliverables and potentially result in repercussions such as missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, erroneous data, supply disruptions, non-compliance (including with applicable legal or regulatory requirements and industry standards) and/or reputational harm, with potential negative effects on our results. collaborations and other relationships with third parties we depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the research, development, manufacturing and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. to achieve expected longer term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments in such transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings. we rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development, manufacturing and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations. failure by one or more of these third parties to meet their contractual or other obligations to pfizer; failure of one or more of these parties to comply with applicable laws or regulations; or any disruption in the relationships between pfizer and one or more of these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval, manufacturing or commercialization of our products and product candidates and could also result in non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. biopharmaceutical wholesalers in 2018 , our largest biopharmaceutical wholesaler accounted for approximately 15% of our total revenues (and approximately 31% of our total u.s. revenues), and our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 37% of our total pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 14 table of contents revenues (and approximately 76% of our total u.s. revenues). if one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, such wholesaler might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, divestments, mergers and acquisitions. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframes or at all, and successfully integrate acquisitions. pursuing these opportunities may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, and could result in increased leverage and/or a downgrade of our credit ratings. where we acquire debt or equity securities as all or part of the consideration for business development activities, such as in connection with our contribution agreement entered into with allogene therapeutics, inc., the value of those securities will fluctuate, and may depreciate in value. we may not control the company in which we acquire securities, such as in connection with a divestiture or collaborative arrangement, and as a result, we will have limited ability to determine its management, operational decisions and policies. further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. legal proceedings or regulatory issues often arise as a result of activities that occurred at acquired companies, their partners and other third parties. in 2016, for example, we paid $784.6 million to resolve allegations related to wyeth's reporting of prices to the government with respect to protonix for activities that occurred prior to our acquisition of wyeth. for these and other reasons, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, and expected synergies and accretion may not be realized within the expected timeframes, or at all. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the lack of adequate inspection at certain international postal facilities as counterfeit medicines are increasingly delivered direct to customers in small parcel packages; the tendency to misuse and abuse medicines; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters compared to the large profits that can be earned by them from the sale of counterfeit medicines. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. pfizer's global reputation makes its medicines prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we undertake significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, including, among other things, working with the fda and other regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of medicines and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; implementing business practices designed to protect patient health; promoting public policies intended to hinder counterfeiting; working diligently to raise public awareness about the dangers of counterfeit medicines; working collaboratively with wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices, and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels, and improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers, and using data analytics and risk assessment tools to better target the factors that give rise to the counterfeiting problem in the first place. however, our efforts and the efforts of others may not be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 15 table of contents risks related to government regulation and legal proceedings : pricing and reimbursement u.s. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls and limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. there have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payments for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. see the discussion regarding pricing and reimbursement in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states pricing and reimbursement section of this 2018 form 10-k. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in certain international markets, such as the different eu member states, japan, china, canada and south korea, governments have significant power as large single payers to regulate prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control, particularly under recent global financing pressures. as a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or favorable formulary placement for our products, or failure to obtain such formulary placement at favorable pricing, could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare reform the u.s. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. for example, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and established a major expansion of healthcare coverage, financed in part by a number of new rebates, discounts, and taxes that had a significant effect on our expenses and profitability. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges regulatory environment/pricing and access u.s. healthcare legislation section in our 2018 financial report and in item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states . we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. for example, tax reform legislation enacted at the end of 2017 eliminates the tax penalty for individuals who do not maintain sufficient health insurance coverage beginning in 2019 (the so-called individual mandate ). we anticipate continued congressional interest in modifying provisions of the aca, particularly given the recent ruling in texas v. azar to invalidate the law as unconstitutional. at this time, the law remains in effect pending appeals of the decision. given the outcomes of the 2018 u.s. midterm elections with democrats taking over the u.s. house of representatives and republicans growing their majority in the u.s. senate, we believe it is unlikely congress will find bipartisan consensus to advance any significant changes to the aca until the legal process unfolds. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and medicaid expansion under the aca are not material, so the impact of the change in law and similar recent administration actions is expected to be limited. any future replacement, modification or repeal of the aca may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how other future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. other u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, general budget control actions, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries (which is among the u.s. presidential administration's policy proposals), revisions to reimbursement of biopharmaceuticals under government programs (such as the implementation of international reference pricing for medicare part b drugs, or changes to protected class criteria for part d drugs), restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 16 table of contents u.s. entitlement reform in the u.s., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. the congressional budget office routinely releases options for reducing federal spending, and the december 2018 release includes proposals to cap federal medicaid payments to the states, and to require manufacturers to pay a minimum rebate on drugs covered under medicare part d for low-income beneficiaries. significant medicare reductions could also result if, for example, congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. these and any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. substantial regulation we are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the u.s., principally by the fda and the dea, and foreign regulatory authorities. failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, as well as reputational harm. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. the process from early discovery to design and adequate implementation of clinical trials to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, or unfavorable new clinical data and further analyses of existing clinical data, including results that may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. we may not be able to meet anticipated pre-clinical or clinical endpoints, commencement and/or completion dates for our pre-clinical or clinical trials, regulatory submission dates, regulatory approval dates and/or launch dates. similarly, we may not be able to successfully address all of the comments received from regulatory authorities such as the fda and the ema, or obtain approval from regulators. regulatory approval of drug or biologic products depends on myriad factors, including a regulator making a determination as to whether a product's benefits outweigh its known risks and a determination of the product's efficacy. additionally, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations and assessments by regulatory authorities. even after a drug or biologic is approved, it could be adversely affected by regulatory decisions impacting labeling, manufacturing processes, safety and/or other matters. we may not be able to receive or maintain favorable recommendations by technical or advisory committees, such as the advisory committee on immunization practices that may impact the use of our vaccines. for example, during the october 2018 acip meeting, the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention presented initial data and indicated formal evaluation of evidence (grading) and a potential vote on the maintenance of the 65 years and older recommendation for prevnar 13 would likely happen in 2019. a potential adverse change in the acip recommendation would negatively impact future prevnar 13 revenues. for additional information, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product discussion section of our 2018 financial report. further, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional or more extensive clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements. for these and other reasons discussed in item 1a. risk factors , we may not obtain the approvals we expect within the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase 4 trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. regulatory agencies in countries outside the u.s. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. postmarketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products could implicate the entire class of products; and this, in turn, could have an adverse effect on the availability or commercial viability of our product(s) as well as other products in the class. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 17 table of contents interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply if we provide, offer, or promise something of value to a healthcare professional, other healthcare provider and/or government official. requirements or industry standards in the u.s. and certain jurisdictions abroad that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to track and disclose financial interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare providers increase government and public scrutiny of such financial interactions. if an interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. these risks may increase as both u.s. and foreign enforcement agencies adopt or increase enforcement efforts in respect of existing and new laws and regulations governing product promotion, marketing, anti-bribery and kickbacks, industry regulations, and codes of conduct. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, changes to existing tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory clarifications and/or interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of the tax cuts and jobs act), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. for additional information, see the provision/(benefit) for taxes on income changes in tax laws and new accounting standards sections, and notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies : adoption of new accounting standards in 2018 in our 2018 financial report. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where one or more third parties seeks damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of its patents by our commercial or other activities, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment, tax litigation and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe that our claims and defenses in matters in which we are a defendant are substantial, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcomes of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations. like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to extensive regulation by government agencies in the u.s., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. as a result, we have interactions with government agencies on an ongoing basis. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements, as well as reputational harm and increased public interest in the matter could result from government investigations. in addition, in a qui tam lawsuit in which the government declines to intervene, the relator may still pursue a suit for the recovery of civil damages and penalties on behalf of the government. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the ffdca, the medicaid drug rebate program, the fcpa and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2018 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. in connection with the resolution of a u.s. government investigation concerning independent copay assistance organizations that provide financial assistance to medicare patients, in may 2018, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of the inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services, which is effective for a period of five pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 18 table of contents years. in the cia, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program requirements. breaches of the cia could result in severe sanctions against us. for additional information, including information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved in, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 17 a . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings in our 2018 financial report. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for legal and environmental contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. risks related to intellectual property : patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in policies or practices that may weaken its intellectual property framework (e.g., a policy of routine compulsory licensing (or threat of compulsory licensing) of pharmaceutical intellectual property). in countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches that challenge our patent rights. most of the suits involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer. independent actions have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. such claims may also be brought as counterclaims to actions we bring to enforce our patents. we are also party to other patent damages suits in various jurisdictions pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry. we also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by such proceedings, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. in june 2018, the patent trial and appeal board ruled on one patent, holding that one claim was valid and that all other claims were invalid. the party challenging that patent has appealed the decision. challenges to other patents remain pending before the u.s. patent and trademark office. the invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 19 table of contents requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. third party intellectual property claims a properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. we are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not always be successful. part of our business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. these opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others. to achieve a first-to-market or early market position for generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars, we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party. claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. we are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars. once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals products or biosimilars, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., at-risk launch). if one of our marketed products is found to infringe valid patent rights of a third party, such third party may be awarded significant damages, or we may be prevented from further sales of that product. such damages may be enhanced as much as three-fold in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries, like hospira, is found to have willfully infringed valid patent rights of a third party. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. risk related to technology : information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. as a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, our efforts may not prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 20 table of contents risks related to our strategic transactions : strategic acquisitions the success of any of our strategic acquisitions will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from combining these businesses with pfizer. we, for example, may fail to achieve cost savings anticipated with certain of these acquisitions, or such cost savings within the expected time frame. similarly, the accretive impact anticipated from certain of these acquisitions may not be realized or may be delayed. integration of these businesses may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. we also may fail to generate the revenue growth for the acquired business that we expected at the time of entering into the transaction. expected revenue from acquired products and product candidates also may be constrained by developments outside of our control. unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory hurdles and commercialization challenges may adversely impact revenue and income contribution from products and product candidates, including those acquired in these acquisitions. hospira, for example, has experienced manufacturing disruptions and substantial regulatory scrutiny due to quality issues. manufacturing problems, as well as any corrective actions and their operational implementation, could adversely impact the revenue we generate from products acquired from hospira and result in substantial unanticipated costs. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business product manufacturing section in our 2018 financial report. consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk the required shareholder and regulatory approvals may not be obtained or the regulatory approvals may contain materially burdensome conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or the joint venture or the other conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction may not be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. completion of the proposed transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including, among others, the approval of gsk's shareholders and the receipt of certain governmental and regulatory approvals, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of all required approvals under the antitrust laws of certain other jurisdictions, including the eu. although pfizer and gsk have agreed to do all things necessary under applicable antitrust laws to complete the proposed transaction as promptly as reasonably practicable, there can be no assurance that these approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all or that the other conditions to closing will be satisfied. in addition, in connection with obtaining the required regulatory approvals, governmental authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the proposed transaction or require changes to the terms of the proposed transaction. if any such conditions or changes are imposed, they may jeopardize or delay completion of the proposed transaction, reduce or delay the anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction or allow the parties to terminate the stock and asset purchase agreement, which could negatively impact our stock price and our or the joint venture's, as applicable, future business and financial results. we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction. the success of the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on the joint venture's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost synergies from the proposed transaction. these anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized or may not be realized within the expected time period. the joint venture's integration of pfizer's and gsk's consumer healthcare businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, costs, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. any material unanticipated issues arising from the integration process could negatively impact our stock price and our or the joint venture's, as applicable, future business and financial results. moreover, uncertainty about the effect of the proposed transaction on employees, customers, suppliers, distributors and other business partners may have an adverse effect on us and the joint venture. these uncertainties may impair our and/or the joint venture's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the transaction is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers, distributors and others who deal with us and/or the joint venture to seek to change or cancel existing business relationships with us and/or the joint venture or fail to renew existing relationships. employee retention may be challenging during the pendency of the proposed transaction, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. if key employees depart because of issues related to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined business, our business and the business of the joint venture following the completion of the transaction could be adversely affected. following the integration of the combined business, gsk intends to separate the joint venture as an independent company via a demerger of its equity interest to its shareholders and a listing of the combined business on the u.k. equity market. gsk will have the sole right to decide whether and when to initiate a separation and listing for a period of five years from closing of the proposed transaction. gsk may also sell all or part of its stake in the joint venture in a contemporaneous initial public offering. should a separation and listing occur during the first five years after closing, pfizer has the option to participate through the distribution of some or all of its equity interest in the joint venture to its shareholders. following a separation or listing, and subject to customary lock-up or similar restrictions, pfizer will also have the ability to sell its equity interest in the joint venture through the capital markets. after the fifth anniversary of the closing of the proposed transaction, both gsk and pfizer will have the right to decide whether and when to initiate a separation and public listing of the joint venture. the planned separation and pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 21 table of contents public listing transactions may not be initiated or completed within the expected time periods or at all, and both the timing and success of any separation and public listing transaction, as well as the value generated for pfizer or its shareholders in any such transaction, will be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. although pfizer is entitled to participate in any separation and listing transaction initiated by gsk during the first five years after closing, it is not required to do so, and any future distribution or sale of pfizer's equity stake in the joint venture will similarly be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. pfizer's ability to complete any such future distribution or sale may also be impacted by the size of pfizer's retained equity stake at the time. the uncertainty relating to the separation and public listing transactions, their implementation, their timing and their yet to be determined effects on the joint venture's business may subject us and the joint venture to risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business and financial results. the joint venture may be subject to additional risks beyond those associated with pfizer's consumer healthcare business. after completion of the transaction, the joint venture will be subject to the risks associated with gsk's consumer healthcare business in addition to the risks associated with pfizer's consumer healthcare business, and the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture may be affected by factors that are different from or in addition to those currently affecting the independent business, financial condition and results of operations of pfizer's consumer healthcare business. many of these factors are outside of our and the joint venture's control, and could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture. moreover, although we will have certain consent, board representation and other governance rights with respect to the joint venture, pfizer will be a minority owner of the joint venture following the completion of the proposed transaction. as a result, pfizer will not have control over the joint venture, its management or its policies and we may have business interests, strategies and goals that differ in certain respects from those of gsk or the joint venture. the market value of our common stock may be adversely affected as a result of expected and unexpected costs associated with the proposed transaction and integration of the businesses. we have incurred, and expect to incur, transaction- and integration-related costs in connection with the proposed transaction. we expect that a substantial portion of these transaction- and integration-related costs will be comprised of non-recurring fees for professional services to complete the proposed transaction, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs, although certain unanticipated costs and expenses may be incurred as well. if the stock and asset purchase agreement is terminated, we would have incurred many of these costs, fees and expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the transaction. these costs, fees and expenses could adversely affect our financial results. other risks: the global economic environment like all businesses of our size, we are exposed to both global and industry-specific economic conditions. governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. examples include the different eu member states, japan, china, canada, south korea and a number of other international markets. the u.s. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage. the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions, but there can be no guarantee that changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. we continue to monitor credit, capital restrictions and economic situations in volatile regions and markets, especially where the ability to obtain u.s. dollars for local currency is unpredictable and challenging. we cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business. in addition, given that a significant portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the u.k., the formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu caused by brexit may pose certain implications for our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. details on how brexit will be executed and the impact on the remaining eu countries will dictate how and whether the broader eu will be impacted pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 22 table of contents and what the resulting impact on our business may be. for additional information, see the see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment the global economic environment section in our 2018 financial report. we also continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts and impediments. if trade restrictions or tariffs reduce global economic activity, or if other factors lead to a general economic downturn, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 53% of our total 2018 revenues were derived from international operations, including 21% from europe and 22% from china, japan and the rest of asia. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese renminbi, the u.k. pound, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela and argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance . for additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2019 and analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2018 financial report. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks related to interest-bearing investments and borrowings and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2018 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7 f . financial instruments : derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and note 11 . pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2018 financial report and the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section in our 2018 financial report. those sections of our 2018 financial report are incorporated by reference. from time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on libor, or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on libor. there is currently uncertainty around whether libor will continue to exist after 2021. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain agreements and we cannot predict what alternative index would be negotiated with our counterparties. as a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. for additional information, see analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources libor . notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. market fluctuations in our equity investments in the first quarter of 2018, we adopted a new accounting standard whereby certain equity investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value now recognized in net income. we expect the adoption of this new accounting standard may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of equity investments. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies : adoption of new accounting standards in 2018 and the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management sections in our 2018 financial report. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 23 table of contents our pension benefit obligations and postretirement benefit obligations, net of our plan assets, are subject to volatility from changes in fair value of equity investments and other investment risk. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans and the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section in our 2018 financial report. cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) the reorganization of our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of the company's 2019 fiscal year; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our proposed transaction with gsk to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture. intangible assets, goodwill and equity-method investments our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. if the associated r&amp;d effort is abandoned, the related ipr&amp;d assets will likely be written-off, and we will record an impairment charge. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charge may be significant. our other intangible assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions section in our 2018 financial report. we also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. an impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. we may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management. internal control over financial reporting the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or lapses in disclosure controls and procedures, could undermine the ability to provide accurate disclosure (including with respect to financial information) on a timely basis, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our disclosures (including with respect to financial information), require significant resources to remediate the lapse or deficiency, and expose us to legal or regulatory proceedings. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. pfizer inc. 2018 form 10-k 24 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the forward-looking information and factors that may affect future results financial risk management section in our 2018 financial report.risk factors 21 business collaboration and co-promotion agreements and patents and other intellectual property rights sections of this 2019 form 10-k; for additional information regarding the revenues of our biopharma business, including revenues by geography and of significant biopharma products, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview, revenues by operating segment and geography and revenues selected product discussion sections and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2019 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our biopharma business, see the analysis of operating segment information biopharma operating segment section in our 2019 financial report. for a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on certain of our major products, see the item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products section in this 2019 form 10-k. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 4 table of contents upjohn upjohn's products are used to treat non-communicable diseases across a broad range of therapeutic areas, including: cardiovascular (lipitor, norvasc and revatio); pain and neurology (lyrica and celebrex); psychiatry (effexor, zoloft and xanax); urology (viagra); and ophthalmology (xalatan/xalacom). we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for two upjohn products in 2019 , three upjohn products in 2018 , and three upjohn products in 2017 : upjohn $1 billion+ products 2019 2018 2017 lyrica lyrica lyrica lipitor lipitor lipitor norvasc viagra for a discussion of certain upjohn products and additional information regarding the revenues of our upjohn business, including revenues by geography and of significant upjohn products, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview, revenues by operating segment and geography and revenues selected product discussion sections and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2019 financial report; and for additional information on the key operational revenue drivers of our upjohn business, see the analysis of operating segment information upjohn operating segment section in our 2019 financial report. for a discussion of the risks associated with our dependence on certain of our major products, see the item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products section in this 2019 form 10-k. collaboration and co-promotion agreements we are party to collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, including, among others, eliquis, xtandi and bavencio. revenues from eliquis (except in certain markets where we have direct sales) , xtandi and bavencio are included in alliance revenues. eliquis has been jointly developed and is commercialized by pfizer and bms. pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where pfizer commercializes eliquis and pays bms compensation based on a percentage of net sales. we have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. bms supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. eliquis is part of the novel oral anticoagulant market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with astellas. the two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to u.s. net sales of xtandi. subject to certain exceptions, pfizer and astellas also share equally all xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the u.s. market. in addition, pfizer and astellas share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales (recorded in other (income)/deductions net ). xtandi is an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells. bavencio (avelumab) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. both companies jointly fund the majority of development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits related to net sales generated from selling any products containing avelumab from this collaboration. bavencio is a human anti-programmed death ligand-1 (pd-l1) antibody. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 5 table of contents research and development innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development are time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. pfizer's purpose is to deliver breakthroughs that change patients' lives. r&amp;d is at the heart of fulfilling pfizer's purpose as we work to translate advanced science and technologies into the therapies that matter most. our r&amp;d priorities and strategy our r&amp;d priorities include: delivering a pipeline of highly differentiated medicines and vaccines where pfizer has a unique opportunity to bring the most important new therapies to patients in need; advancing our capabilities that can position pfizer for long-term r&amp;d leadership; and advancing new models for partnerships with creativity, flexibility and urgency to deliver innovation to patients as quickly as possible. to that end, our r&amp;d primarily focuses on: oncology; inflammation and immunology; vaccines; internal medicine; rare diseases; and hospital . while a significant portion of r&amp;d is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines. we do so by entering into collaboration, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. these agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies and/or capabilities. we also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one or more of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost. they also enable us to access external scientific and technological expertise, as well as provide us the opportunity to advance our own products and in-licensed or acquired products. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2 . acquisitions, divestitures, equity-method investments and assets and liabilities held for sale, licensing arrangements and research and development and collaborative arrangements in our 2019 financial report. our r&amp;d operations we conduct r&amp;d internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. in 2019, we continued to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near term and over time. our r&amp;d spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations: research units within our wrdm organization are generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our biopharma business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). our research units are organized by therapeutic area to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. because of our structure, we are able to rapidly redeploy resources within a research unit between various projects as necessary because in many instances the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. our science-based and other platform-services organizations provide technical expertise and other services to the various r&amp;d projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our wrdm organization), such as pharmaceutical sciences, medicine design, and non-science-based functions, such as facilities, digital and finance. within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs. in addition, the worldwide medical and safety group, within wrdm, ensures that pfizer provides all stakeholders including patients, healthcare providers, pharmacists, payers and health authorities with complete and up-to-date information on the risks and benefits associated with pfizer products so that they can make appropriate decisions on how and when to use pfizer's medicines. our r&amp;d organization within upjohn supports the off-patent branded and generic established medicines and helps to develop product enhancements, new indications and new market registrations for these medicines. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 6 table of contents our global product development (gpd) organization is a unified center for clinical development and regulatory activities that is generally responsible for the clinical development strategy and operational execution of clinical trials for both early-stage assets in the wrdm portfolio as well as late-stage assets in the biopharma portfolio. we manage r&amp;d operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. specifically, the portfolio strategy &amp; investment committee, comprised of senior executives, is accountable for aligning resources among all of our wrdm, gpd and biopharma r&amp;d projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the innovative r&amp;d portfolio. we believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. our upjohn r&amp;d organization manages its resources separately from the wrdm and gpd organizations, with operational support from gpd for select clinical development regulatory activities and from wrdm for clinical supply operations and global pharmacovigilance processing. generally, we do not disaggregate total r&amp;d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage our r&amp;d operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, we believe that any prior-period information about r&amp;d expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending. for additional information on our r&amp;d operations and expenses, see the costs and expenses research and development (r&amp;d) expenses section in our 2019 financial report. our r&amp;d pipeline and competition the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research and development. the process from discovery to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. as of january 28, 2020 , we had the following number of projects in various stages of r&amp;d: development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple programs. while these drug candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our r&amp;d efforts seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness, enhancing ease of dosing and by discovering potential new indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section in our 2019 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to r&amp;d. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. in addition, several of our competitors operate without large r&amp;d expenses and make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. for additional information, see the competition and item 1a. risk factors competitive products sections in this 2019 form 10-k. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 7 table of contents international operations we have significant operations outside the u.s. in 2019, operations in developed and emerging markets were managed through our business segments: biopharma, upjohn and, through july 31, 2019, consumer healthcare. emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our commercial structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. urbanization and the rise of the middle class in emerging markets, particularly in asia, provide growth opportunities for our medicines. we sell our products in over 125 countries. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $27.9 billion accounted for 54% of our total revenues in 2019 . revenues exceeded $500 million in each of eleven countries outside the u.s. in 2019, 2018 and 2017. by total revenues, china and japan are our two largest national markets outside the u.s. for a geographic breakdown of revenues, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview and revenues by operating segment and geography sections and the table captioned geographic information in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2019 financial report. our international operations are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries, including, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations and expropriation and other restrictive government actions. see the item 1a. risk factors international operations section in this 2019 form 10-k. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states section in this 2019 form 10-k for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7 f . financial instruments : derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2019 financial report, which is incorporated by reference, as well as item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial risk management section in this 2019 form 10-k. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and pharmacists; mcos that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems, pbms and health plans; and employers and government agencies who hire mcos to provide health benefits to their employees. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that seeks to communicate the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of our vaccines products in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention, wholesalers, individual provider offices, retail pharmacies, and integrated delivery networks. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and pbm formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the pbms. pbms use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 8 table of contents products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we may also work with payers on disease management programs that help to develop tools and materials to educate patients and physicians on key disease areas. in 2019 , our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenues (and approximately 79% of our total u.s. revenues). % of 2019 total revenues and u.s. revenues from major biopharmaceutical wholesalers and other customers patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states intellectual property section in this 2019 form 10-k. in various markets, a period of regulatory exclusivity may be provided to certain drugs upon approval. the scope and term of such exclusivity will vary but, in general, the period of regulatory exclusivity will run concurrently with the term of any existing patent rights associated with the drug at the time of approval. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, grant of an additional six-month pediatric extension and/or the granted patent term extension in the u.s. and japan and supplementary patent certificate in europe), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. unless otherwise indicated, the years set forth in the table below pertain to the basic product patent expiration for the respective products. patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 9 table of contents drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year lyrica 2019 (1) 2014 (2) 2022 (3) chantix/champix 2020 2021 2022 sutent 2021 2022 2024 ibrance 2023 2028 2028 vyndaqel/vyndamax 2024 2026 2026 inlyta 2025 2025 2025 xeljanz 2025 2028 (4) 2025 prevnar 13/prevenar 13 2026 __(5) 2029 eliquis (6) 2026 2026 2026 xtandi (7) 2027 * (7) * (7) xalkori 2029 2027 2028 besponsa 2030 2028 2028 (8) braftovi (9) 2031 * (9) * (9) mektovi (9) 2031 (10) * (9) * (9) bavencio (11) 2033 2032 2033 (1) lyrica lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. (2) lyrica regulatory exclusivity in the eu expired in july 2014. (3) lyrica is covered by a japanese method-of-use patent which expires in 2022. the patent is currently subject to an invalidation action. (4) xeljanz eu expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (5) the eu patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 was revoked following an opposition and has now been withdrawn. there are other eu patents and pending applications covering the formulation, various aspects of the manufacturing process, and the combination of serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 that remain in force. (6) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. (7) xtandi is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with astellas, which has exclusive commercialization rights for xtandi outside the u.s. pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales. (8) besponsa japan expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (9) pfizer has exclusive rights to braftovi and mektovi in the u.s. the pierre fabre group has exclusive rights to commercialize both products in europe and ono pharmaceutical co., ltd. has exclusive rights to commercialize both products in japan. pfizer receives royalties from the pierre fabre group and ono pharmaceutical co., ltd. on sales of braftovi and mektovi outside the u.s. (10) the u.s. expiration date in the table for mektovi is provided by a method-of-use patent. (11) bavencio is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. the loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. however, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we typically lose exclusivity on these products, and generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce identical or highly similar products and sell them for a lower price. the date at which generic or biosimilar competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, when generic or biosimilar competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; or conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors patent protection section in this 2019 form 10-k. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim either do not infringe our patents or our patents are invalid; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, eliquis, ibrance and xeljanz. we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for additional pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 10 table of contents information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a1 . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2019 financial report. recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity certain of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. for example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. lyrica lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. also, the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020. see the table above for the basic product patent expiries of our most significant products. we expect the impact of reduced revenues due to patent expiries will be significant in 2020, then moderating downward to a much lower level from 2021 through 2025. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products section in this 2019 form 10-k. the following table provides information about certain products recently experiencing, or expected to experience in 2020 , patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan. our financial results in 2019 and our financial guidance for 2020 reflect the impact of the loss of exclusivity of various products discussed below: (millions of dollars) product revenues in markets impacted products key dates (a) markets impacted year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 viagra (b) june 2013 may 2014 december 2017 major european markets japan u.s. $ 134 $ 274 $ 850 lyrica (c) july 2014 june 2019 major european markets u.s. 2,208 3,852 3,901 pristiq (d) march 2017 u.s. 42 71 133 chantix (e) november 2020 u.s. 899 838 742 (a) unless otherwise noted, key dates indicate patent-based expiration dates. (b) as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. (c) lyrica lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. (d) as a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of pristiq launched in the u.s. in march 2017. (e) the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020, which includes the fda's grant of pediatric exclusivity that extended the period of market exclusivity in the u.s. for chantix for an additional six months from may 2020. biologic products our biologic products, including benefix, refacto, xyntha, bavencio, prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and enbrel (we market enbrel outside the u.s. and canada), already face, or may face in the future, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). in the u.s., such biosimilars would reference our originator biologic products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin, that was approved under the ffdca. biosimilars are versions of biologic medicines that have been developed and proven to be highly similar to the original biologic in terms of safety and efficacy and that have no clinically meaningful differences in safety, purity or potency. biosimilars have the potential to offer high-quality, lower-cost alternatives to biologic medicines. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca in 2010, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. in europe, the european commission grants marketing authorizations for biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop and commercialize biosimilar medicines. some of the biosimilars that we currently market include inflectra, nivestym, retacrit, zirabev, ruxience and trazimera in the u.s.; inflectra, retacrit, nivestim and trazimera in the eu; and ixifi, trazimera, zirabev and ruxience in japan. see the item 1a. risk factors biosimilars section in this 2019 form 10-k. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 11 table of contents we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biologic products. likewise, as we develop, manufacture and seek to launch biosimilars, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, we have seen some improvement in global protection of intellectual property rights. for additional information, see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states intellectual property section in this 2019 form 10-k. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further demonstrating the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians, payers and global health authorities. we also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals, and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of alternative vaccines. for example, prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of competitor vaccines, including vaccines with additional serotypes or next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to or after the expiration of its patents, which may adversely affect our future results. our generics and biosimilars businesses compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generics and biosimilars manufacturers. globally, pfizer sells generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products. we also sell biosimilars of certain inflammation &amp; immunology and oncology biologic medicines globally. we seek to maximize the opportunity to establish a first-to-market or early market position for our generic injectable drugs and biosimilars, as a first-to-market position provides customers a lower-cost alternative immediately when available and also may provide us with potentially higher levels of sales and profitability until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 300 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states section in this 2019 form 10-k), the marketing of prescription drugs to both consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continues to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 12 table of contents formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. in addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, mcos transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. this financial disincentive is a tool for mcos to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the mcos. mcos also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing and copay accumulator programs to improve their cost containment efforts. we are closely monitoring these newer approaches and developing appropriate strategies to respond to them. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population and beyond. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. however, increasingly our branded products are being placed on the higher tiers or in a non-preferred status. mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. for additional information, see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states healthcare reform section in this 2019 form 10-k. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that our branded products face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in china, for example, we are expected to face further intensified competition by certain generic manufacturers in 2020, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. in a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. favoring generics may reduce sales of our branded products. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. in 2019 , we experienced periodic shortages of select materials due to constrained capacity or operational challenges with the associated suppliers. supplier management activities are ongoing to work to ensure the necessary supply to meet our requirements for these materials. no significant impact to our operations is anticipated in 2020. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 13 table of contents government regulation and price constraints pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the countries in which they do business. certain laws and regulations that govern pfizer's business are discussed below. general . our business has been and will continue to be subject to numerous laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by various governmental bodies. for additional information on these proceedings and actions, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings in our 2019 financial report. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, warning letters and product recalls or seizures, delays in product approvals, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from such proceedings and actions. in the united states drug regulation . in the u.s., biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulation by the fda, including regulations that govern, among other things, the safety and efficacy of our medicines, clinical trials, advertising and promotion, manufacturing, labeling and record keeping. our products are also subject to post-market surveillance under the ffdca and its implementing regulations with respect to drugs, as well as the public health service act and its implementing regulations with respect to biologics. other u.s. federal agencies, including the dea, also regulate certain of our products. many of our activities also are subject to the jurisdiction of the sec. biopharmaceutical companies seeking to market a product in the u.s. must first test the product to demonstrate that it is safe and effective for its intended use. if, after evaluation, the fda determines the product is safe (i.e., its benefits outweigh its known risks) and effective, then the fda will approve the product for marketing, issuing a new drug application or biologics license application, as appropriate. companies seeking to market a generic prescription drug must scientifically demonstrate that the generic drug is bioequivalent to the innovator drug. the abbreviated new drug application, or generic drug application, must show, among other things, that the generic drug is pharmaceutically equivalent to the brand, the manufacturer is capable of making the drug correctly, and the proposed label is the same as that of the innovator/brand drug's label. even after a drug or biologic is approved for marketing, it may still be subject to postmarketing commitments or postmarketing requirements. postmarketing commitments are studies or clinical trials that the drug or biologic sponsor has agreed to conduct, but are not required by law and/or regulation. postmarketing requirements include studies and clinical trials that sponsors are required to conduct, by law and/or regulation, as a condition of approval. postmarketing studies or clinical trials can be required in order to assess a known risk or demonstrate clinical benefit for drugs or biologics approved pursuant to accelerated approval. if a company fails to meet its postmarketing requirements, the fda may assess a civil monetary penalty, issue a warning letter or deem the drug or biologic misbranded. once a drug or biologic is approved, the fda must be notified of any modifications to the product and the fda may also require a manufacturer to submit additional studies or conduct clinical trials. in addition, we are also required to report adverse events and comply with cgmps, as well as advertising and promotion regulations. failure to comply with the ffdca may subject us to administrative and/or judicial sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls, seizures, delays in product approvals, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. biosimilar regulation. the aca created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation and approval of new biosimilars. through fda approvals and the issuance of draft and final guidance, the fda has addressed a number of issues related to the biosimilars approval pathway, such as the labeling expectations for biosimilars. for example, in 2019, the fda issued final guidance regarding the standards for demonstrating interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. in addition, in 2017, the biosimilar user fee act was reauthorized for a five-year period, which led to a significant increase in the fda's biosimilar user fee revenues, thereby providing the fda with additional resources to process biosimilar applications. for example, since the enactment of the newly authorized fee structure, the fda estimates its revenues from biosimilar user fees generally will exceed $40 million. sales and marketing laws and regulations . the marketing practices of u.s. biopharmaceutical companies are generally subject to various federal and state healthcare laws that are intended, among other things, to prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. these laws include anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a biopharmaceutical company from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying anything of value to generate business, including purchasing or prescribing of a particular product. false claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for goods (including drugs or biologics) or services to third-party payers (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent and generally treat claims generated through kickbacks as false or fraudulent. violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including medicare and medicaid). the federal government pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 14 table of contents and various states also have enacted laws to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies. the laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and healthcare providers, require disclosure to the federal or state government and the public of such interactions, and/or require the adoption of compliance standards or programs. many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our activities could be subject to the penalties under the pertinent laws and regulations. pricing and reimbursement . pricing and reimbursement for our pharmaceutical products depends in part on government regulation. pfizer must offer discounted pricing or rebates on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program, the federal ceiling price drug pricing program, the 340b drug pricing program and the medicare part d program. pfizer must also report specific prices to government agencies under healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program and medicare part b. the calculations necessary to determine the prices reported are complex and the failure to report prices accurately may expose pfizer to penalties. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 g . basis of presentation and significant accounting policies : revenues and trade accounts receivable in our 2019 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. government and private third-party payers routinely seek to manage utilization and control the costs of our products. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including proposed action on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. there continues to be considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing, and measures to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals are being considered by congress, the presidential administration and select states. for example, recent legislation revised how manufacturers calculate the average manufacturer price on branded drugs with authorized generics under the medicaid drug rebate program, which the congressional budget office has estimated will reduce medicaid costs by over $3 billion over the next decade. proposals for even more far-reaching reform, such as immediately eliminating or phasing out private health insurance, are being proposed by some democratic candidates for u.s. president. in particular, several states have enacted or are considering transparency laws that require prescription drug manufacturers to report to the state and make public price increases, and sometimes to provide a written justification for the increase. in addition to new state transparency laws and the introduction of several federal pricing bills, we have also seen the presidential administration introduce proposals related to importation and express interest in international reference pricing in medicare part b. we expect to see continued focus in regulating pricing resulting in additional legislation and regulation that could adversely impact revenue. in addition, u.s. government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services associated with the provision of our products. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors u.s. entitlement reform section in this 2019 form 10-k. also, the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain pharmaceutical products under medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products under certain state medicaid programs. as another example, access to our products under the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans with which state medicaid agencies contract to provide services to medicaid beneficiaries. states continue to explore options for controlling healthcare costs related to medicaid and other state healthcare programs, including the implementation of supplemental rebate agreements under the medicaid drug rebate program that are tied to patient outcomes. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration among pharmacy chains and wholesalers, who collectively are the primary purchasers of our pharmaceutical products in the u.s., and pbms will increase pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors managed care trends section in this 2019 form 10-k. the potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. many employers have adopted high deductible health plans, which can increase out-of-pocket costs for medicines. this is a trend that is likely to continue. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions and improved patient outcomes. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also promote utilization of drugs by encouraging physicians to screen and diagnose and consider drugs as a means of forestalling more costly medical interventions. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. in addition, in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 15 table of contents understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we seek to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs . healthcare reform. there have been significant efforts at the federal and state levels to reform the healthcare system by enhancing access to healthcare, improving the delivery of healthcare and further rationalizing payment for healthcare. we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. there is additional uncertainty given the ruling in december 2019 by the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the fifth circuit in texas v. azar that the individual mandate, which is a significant provision of the aca, is unconstitutional. the case has been remanded to a lower court to determine whether the individual mandate is inseparable from the entire aca, in which case the aca as a whole would be rendered unconstitutional. in the meantime, the remaining provisions of the law remain in effect. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and medicaid expansion under the aca are not material, so the impact of full invalidation of the law is expected to be limited. however, any future replacement for the aca may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage or dramatically increases industry taxes and fees. any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results. anti-corruption. the fcpa prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. data privacy. pfizer collects personal data as part of its regular business activities. the collection and use of this data is subject to privacy and data security laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory or other governmental bodies. for example, we are subject to the california consumer privacy act (ccpa). the ccpa, which came into effect on january 1, 2020, imposes numerous obligations on us, including a duty to disclose the categories of personal data that we collect, sell, or share about california consumers, and gives those consumers rights regarding their personal data. noncompliance with any of these laws could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop non-compliant activities, and could damage our reputation and harm our business. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most countries outside the u.s. new drug approvals. in the eu, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure, the decentralized procedure or the eu centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the centralized procedure, managed by the ema, results in one single authorization for the whole eu, which provides the most rapid and efficient means of gaining approval across the eu and is the one most commonly used for new products. in china, the regulatory system historically presented numerous challenges for the pharmaceutical industry, as its requirements for drug development and registration were often inconsistent with u.s. or other international standards. in recent years, however, china has introduced reforms and draft reforms, which are discussed in more detail below, that attempt to address these challenges. furthermore, in 2017, the china regulatory authority, the national medical products administration (nmpa), became a member of the international council for harmonization (ich), which has resulted in greater adoption of international technical guidelines and practices by the government. 2019 was another active year in this respect, with a number of reforms coming into effect, and more proposals and drafts being issued for consultation. in japan, the pmda is the point of entry for businesses looking to sell drugs in the country. the pmda, which is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, postmarketing reviews and pharmaceuticals safety, must approve an application before a new drug product may be marketed in japan. the pmda also offers consultations on clinical trials of new drugs and provides advice on product classifications and approvals. health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the fda or the ema) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. many authorities also require local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. pharmacovigilance. in the eu, the ema's pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee has the responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. eu regulators may require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization safety and efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional extensive requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. outside developed markets such as the eu and japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are generally not as extensive, but there is a trend toward increasing regulation. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 16 table of contents pricing and reimbursement . certain governments, including the different eu member states, the u.k., china, japan, canada, south korea and some other international markets, provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global financing pressures. governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, forced localization as a condition of market access, international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries), quality consistency evaluation processes and volume-based procurement. in addition, the international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and incomplete value assessments across countries has led to varying access to quality medicines in many markets and some third-party trade in our products between countries. in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations, including the world health organization (who), and the organization for economic cooperation and development, are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations. in 2019, the who continued exerting pressure on pharmaceutical pricing practices by supporting strategies to reduce medicine prices, including calling for greater transparency around the cost of research and development and production of medicines, as well as disclosure of net prices. in japan, the pricing environment for innovative medicines further deteriorated in 2019 with the introduction of a health technology assessment (hta) system to inform price adjustments of healthcare technologies after launch. expansion of this system for reimbursement decisions, as seen in other hta markets, remains a risk. while significant challenges remain, the 2020 drug pricing reform package, unlike the last reform package in 2018, is not expected to fundamentally change the access landscape. furthermore, the eligibility criteria for the price maintenance premium, a key policy that protects against price erosion for certain products, is expected to be somewhat enhanced while expedited regulatory pathways are codified in law. in canada, the patented medicine prices review board (pmprb) released draft guidelines to implement new pricing regulations in november 2019, which will go into force in july 2020. these regulations drop the u.s. from the reference basket of countries used to determine price and add economic factors for setting ceiling prices for new medicines. an initial analysis of the potential impact of these proposed changes to the pmprb regulations estimated an approximately $26 billion reduction in industry revenues over the next decade. china pricing pressures . in china, healthcare is largely driven by a public payer system, with public medical insurance as the largest single payer for pharmaceuticals, and pricing pressures have increased in recent years. government officials have consistently emphasized the importance of improved health outcomes, the need for healthcare reform and decreased drug prices as key indicators of progress towards reform. while the government provides basic health insurance for the vast majority of chinese citizens, that insurance is not adequate to cover many innovative medicines, and alternative funding sources for innovative medicines remain suboptimal. in 2019, china's government negotiated with companies to add approximately 90 innovative drugs (mainly oncology medicines) to the national reimbursement drug list. this builds on 60 drugs already added through negotiation in 2017 and 2018. prices for drugs have been reduced dramatically through this government-led process. while these negotiations have included a path to access for companies, market access is not assured. in addition, significant questions about the processes and negotiations for provincial tendering remain, as well as the need for multi-layered negotiations across provincial, municipal and hospital levels. in the off-patent space, in 2013, china began to implement a quality consistency evaluation (qce) process in order to improve the quality of domestically-manufactured generic drugs, primarily by requiring such drugs to pass a test to assess their bioequivalence to a qualified reference drug (typically the originator drug). in 2018, numerous local generics were officially deemed bioequivalent under qce. a pilot project for centralized volume-based procurement (vbp) was then initiated including 25 molecules of drugs covering 11 major chinese cities. under this procurement model, a tender process has been established where a certain portion of included molecule volumes are guaranteed to tender winners. the program is intended to contain healthcare costs by driving utilization of generics that have passed qce, which has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent medicines. upjohn and most off-patent originators were not successful in the first bidding process under this pilot, which was finalized in december 2018 and implemented in march 2019, and most contracts went to local generic companies. the first bidding process resulted in significant price cuts by the successful bidders, with some bidders reducing the price of their products by as much as 96 percent, as companies attempted to secure volumes on the chinese pharmaceutical market. the drugs that lost the bidding were also requested to reduce their selling price up to 30 percent based on the price difference with the successful bidder. china's government began nationwide expansion of the vbp pilot in december 2019. the expanded model, which is being implemented nationwide, applies to certain drugs that are purchased for public hospitals as well as some military and private medical institutions. as in the first bidding process, our upjohn business unit and most originator brands were not successful in pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 17 table of contents the bidding process for this nationwide expansion, and those contracts mostly went to local chinese generic companies. the qce-qualified generic makers of atorvastatin and amlodipine bid aggressively, lowering prices even further from the march 2019 tender. our upjohn business unit continues to take steps to mitigate the revenue impact of these initiatives but anticipates that they will continue to affect our upjohn business in china in the future. we expect to utilize our presence in the retail channel, private hospitals and tendering capabilities to mitigate some of these pricing pressures. in addition, we believe that our geographic expansion to under-penetrated and lower-tiered cities and counties and additional focus on non-tendered products will increase sales volumes in greater china and partially mitigate pressures from qce. in late 2019, china announced another round of expansion of the national vbp program, which covers 33 new molecules, including biopharma's zithromax tablets and diflucan tablets and no upjohn products. biopharma was not successful in the bidding process for this expansion. furthermore, the chinese government has discussed moving toward efforts to unify the reimbursement price between qce-approved generic medicines and the applicable original medicines. the government currently plans to implement this universal reimbursement price initiative within the next two to three years. if this policy is implemented, the new reimbursement level for upjohn's products will likely be lower than the current reimbursement level, placing additional pressures on price and/or patient copays. there remains uncertainty as to whether, when and how this policy may be officially implemented. the chinese government could also enact other policies that may increase pricing pressures or have the effect of reducing the volume of sales available to upjohn's products. this potential policy, and any other policies like it that could increase pricing and copay pressures on upjohn's drug products in china, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the government has indicated that additional post-loe drugs could be subjected to qce qualification in future rounds, which could also be tied to volume-based procurement. the scope of future qce products and timing of any program expansion is currently unknown, making it difficult to determine the impact on pfizer's business and financial condition. we will continue to monitor the market for developments. eu regulatory changes . the eu adopted a new clinical trials regulation in may 2014, but its implementation has been delayed by the need for the eu authorities to establish new technical systems. this regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the administrative processes and governance of clinical trials in the eu and will require increased public posting of clinical trial results. it is currently not anticipated to be fully implemented until the first half of 2022 at the earliest. brexit . in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as brexit . the u.k. left the eu on january 31, 2020 with status quo arrangements through a transition period scheduled to end on december 31, 2020. the consequences of the u.k. leaving the eu and the terms of the future trading relationship continue to be highly uncertain, which may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. however, both the u.k. and the eu have issued detailed guidance for the industry on how medicines, medical devices and clinical trials will be separately regulated in their respective territories. pfizer has substantially completed its preparations for brexit, having made the changes necessary to meet relevant regulatory requirements in the eu and the u.k., through the transition period and afterwards, especially in the regulatory, research, manufacturing and supply chain areas. between 2018 and 2021, we expect to spend up to approximately $60 million in one-time costs to make these adaptations. for additional information on brexit, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment section in our 2019 financial report . china regulatory changes . in an effort to encourage drug innovation and reduce backlogs for existing applications for drug approval, in recent years, the nmpa has unveiled numerous reform initiatives for china's drug approval system and engaged in significant efforts to build its capabilities. the nmpa divides drugs into new drugs and generics, with the definition for new drugs changed from china new to global new. this means that drugs previously approved in other markets (such as the u.s. or europe) are not considered new drugs under china's regulatory regime. this change in definition creates more opportunities for china's domestic drug manufacturers than for multinational firms, because multinational firms have historically had significant competitive advantage in successfully achieving regulatory approvals for drugs first approved outside of china. revisions in 2019 made clear, however, that regulatory approval from the fda or the ema would no longer be required for approval of imported drugs, though a notable exception persists for imported vaccines, which still require prior approval from a reference regulatory agency such as the fda. in 2019, china published a revision to its drug administration law and introduced a marketing authorization holder system, which grants the nmpa more authority over regulating manufacturers and provides manufacturers more flexibility in contract manufacturing arrangements and manufacturing site transfers. while challenges remain, a number of other policy changes are streamlining and accelerating approvals of domestic and imported drugs in china. these reforms, along with china's june 2018 elevation to the ich management committee, are expected to pave the way for integration of chinese regulations with global practices. these changes include introducing more streamlined processes for maintaining renewal of product registrations, reduction in importing testing requirements, and establishing an expedited registration pathway for drugs to treat rare diseases and serious, life-threatening illnesses with no effective treatment. though certain details on implementation are unclear (e.g., evolving list of qualified rare diseases and no guidance on what qualifies as serious, life threatening), the nmpa aims to build expedited pathways for certain categories of products similar to the u.s. and european regulatory systems. additionally, the nmpa published changes to china's registration requirements that align more with international practices, including a 60-day review timeline for clinical trial authorizations and pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 18 table of contents guidance for acceptance of foreign clinical data and the utilization of real world data in drug development and regulatory decision making. although a number of regulatory changes better support china's inclusion in simultaneous global drug development, unique regulatory requirements continue to pose challenges for multinational companies, including china's human genetic resources process for exporting clinical trial samples (which adds months to starting a clinical trial in china); mismatched china pharmacopoeia and manufacturing data requirements that require standards exceeding acceptable practices in the u.s., eu, and japan; and unpredictable and inconsistent clinical trial inspection practices. healthcare provider transparency and disclosures. a number of countries have implemented laws requiring (or their industry associations have recommended) disclosure of transfers of value made by pharmaceutical companies to healthcare providers. for example, the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations' disclosure code requires all members, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations. intellectual property . the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property rights (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2033 for least-developed countries. while we still face patent grant, enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, some countries have made improvements. we include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. while the global intellectual property environment has generally improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool to force innovators to accept less than fair value for medicines, as well as to protect their local pharmaceutical industries. considerable political and economic pressure exists to weaken current intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards for obtaining patents and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, laws or regulations that promote or provide broad discretion to issue a compulsory license, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries and helping improve patients' access to innovative medicines. in developed countries as well, including the eu, we are facing an increasingly challenging intellectual property environment. as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement (ceta), canada now provides sui generis protection, commonly referred to as patent term restoration, for patent term extensions for basic patents; however, the extension is capped at two years, whereas the international norm is five years. in addition, the implementing regulations may create obstacles for patentees applying for patent term restoration via a certificate of supplementary protection (csp), and canada's proposed drug pricing reforms may negatively impact the benefit of a csp. furthermore, the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca) will, when implemented, require canada and mexico to make certain improvements to their current intellectual property regimes, including the establishment of patent term adjustment for unreasonable delays in the grant of patents. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved in recent years, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization provisions, although china remained on the u.s. trade representative's priority watch list for 2019 due to ongoing enforcement challenges and china's failure to make certain structural reforms. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in 2019, the regulatory authority granted marketing approval to generic products while the reference product in each case are still subject to patent protection, and there is no effective legal means to resolve patent disputes prior to the marketing of those infringing drugs. the u.s. and china recently signed an initial agreement in which china has committed to address some patent-related concerns, and both governments have indicated that they will continue bilateral discussions on implementation of these commitments and other intellectual property issues in 2020. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., national health surveillance agency in brazil), restrictive patentability rules, ambiguity regarding the term of certain patents and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. additionally, an increased threat of issuance of compulsory licenses for biopharmaceutical products exists, which adds to business uncertainty. in india, we have seen some progress in terms of expediting patent approval processes to reduce pendency rates and implementing training programs to enhance enforcement. despite these positive steps, gaps remain in terms of addressing longstanding intellectual property concerns. for example, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the tendency of the pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 19 table of contents indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings (both pre- and post-grant), and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to safeguard many of our inventions and our investments in innovation. these policies heighten the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population. challenges against pfizer patents in india are ongoing. data privacy. outside of the u.s., many countries where we conduct business, including the eu, have privacy and data security laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal data, and we must comply with these laws and regulations as well. one applicable law is the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr). the gdpr imposes detailed obligations on companies that collect, use, or otherwise process personal data and penalties for noncompliance may include fines of up to 4 percent of the company's global annual revenue. additionally, the legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving as countries continue to adopt privacy and data security laws. any inability to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards or other legal obligations regarding data protection or privacy could result in additional costs and liability to pfizer as well as reputational harm and may adversely affect our business. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a3 . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings commercial and other matters in our 2019 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2019 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $31 million ; and other environment-related expenses $136 million . while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not currently anticipate they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including the potential for additional regulatory requirements and associated costs, and the potential for more frequent and severe weather events and water availability challenges that may impact our facilities and those of our suppliers. for example, in 2017, our manufacturing and commercial operations in puerto rico were impacted by hurricanes as our three manufacturing sites in puerto rico sustained damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting puerto rico overall. all three sites resumed operations, and remediation activities were completed in 2018. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have a program for reviewing our vulnerability to potential weather-related risks and other natural disasters and we update our assessments periodically. to date, we have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not anticipate that these risks will have a material impact on pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5 . tax matters in our 2019 financial report is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we generally believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 88,300 people in our operations throughout the world. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2019 , our activities included supplying medicine and medical products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran. we ship pfizer products to iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2019 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2019 form 10-k and in our 2019 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, may, could, likely, ongoing, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, assume, target, forecast, guidance, goal, objective, aim, seek and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, expectations for our product pipeline, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, revenue contribution, growth, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits, strategic reviews, capital allocation objectives, plans for and prospects of our acquisitions and other business-development activities, benefits anticipated from the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, government regulation, our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities or prospects, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, including, among others, the expected timing, benefits, charges and/or costs in connection with our agreement to combine upjohn with mylan to create a new global pharmaceutical company, viatris, set forth in the item 1. business about pfizer and item 1a. risk factors pending combination of upjohn with mylan sections in this 2019 form 10-k and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives and our strategy sections and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1a. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies basis of presentation in our 2019 financial report; the expected impact of patent expiries on our business set forth in the item 1. business patents and other intellectual property rights section in this 2019 form 10-k and in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2019 financial report; the expected competition from certain generic manufacturers in china in the item 1. business competition generic products and item 1a. risk factors generic competition sections in this 2019 form 10-k; the anticipated costs related to our preparations for brexit set forth in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states brexit section in this 2019 form 10-k and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment section in our 2019 financial report; the availability of raw materials for 2020 set forth in item 1. business raw materials in this 2019 form 10-k; the expected pricing pressures on our products in the u.s. and internationally and the anticipated impact to our business set forth in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints and item 1a. risk factors pricing and reimbursement sections in this 2019 form 10-k; the anticipated impact of climate change on pfizer set forth in item 1. business environmental matters in this 2019 form 10-k; the expected demerger of the gsk consumer healthcare joint venture set forth in the item 1a. risk factors consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk section in this 2019 form 10-k; the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019 and our expectations regarding growth set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy organizing for growth section in our 2019 financial report; our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment and the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2019 financial report; the anticipated costs and savings from certain of our initiatives, including transforming to a more focused company initiative, set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook transforming to a more focused company and costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives sections and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 3 . restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives in our 2019 financial report; our plans for increasing investment in the u.s. set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy capital allocation and expense management increasing investment in the u.s. section in our 2019 financial report; the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2020 section in our 2019 financial report; the expected impact of the advisory committee on immunization practices recommendation for prevnar 13 for adults 65 and older on prevnar 13's revenues set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product discussion prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (biopharma) section in our 2019 financial report; the expected impact of updates to the prescribing information for xeljanz on its growth set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product discussion xeljanz (biopharma) section in our 2019 financial report; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2019 financial report; the expected payments to our unfunded u.s. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans and expected funding obligations set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section; and the voluntary contribution we expect to make during 2020 for the u.s. qualified plans set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11 . pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2019 financial report. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 21 table of contents we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected, projected or historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business, industry and operations : managed care trends private third-party payers, such as health plans, and other managed care entities, such as pbms, continue to take action to manage the utilization of drugs and control the cost of drugs. consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private third-party payers. private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by taking into account discounts in connection with decisions about formulary inclusion or favorable formulary placement. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or favorable formulary placement for our products, or failure to obtain such formulary placement at favorable pricing, could adversely impact revenue. private third-party payers often implement formularies with copayment tiers to encourage utilization of certain drugs and have also been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. private third-party payers are also implementing new initiatives like so-called copay accumulators (policies that provide that the value of copay assistance does not count as out-of-pocket costs that are applied toward deductibles) that can shift more of the cost burden to manufacturers and patients. this cost shifting has increased consumer interest and input in medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. third-party payers also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts, and are also increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. private third-party payer market consolidates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. in addition, our patented products may face generic competition before patent exclusivity expires, including upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products. generic competition could lead to our loss of a major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. a number of our products have experienced significant generic competition over the last few years. for example, lyrica (a product in our upjohn business) lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. also, the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020. in china, we are expected to face further intensified competition by certain generic manufacturers, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products. also, generic manufacturers have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents or that our patents are not valid; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, eliquis, ibrance and xeljanz. our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering products for which we have licenses or co-promotion rights. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 22 table of contents competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. the introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development. some of these have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. we also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with products from competitors, including other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. the ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before the anticipated formation of the generic or biosimilar marketplace is important to that product's profitability. with increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product markets, our success will depend on our ability to bring new products to market quickly. the fda, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may result in delayed approvals of new generic products over the next few years. also, we may face access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive appropriate coverage/reimbursement access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to the innovator product. for example, inflectra has experienced access challenges among commercial payers. in september 2017, pfizer filed suit in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against johnson &amp; johnson (j&amp;j) alleging that j&amp;j's exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning remicade (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of eight biopharmaceutical products in 2019: prevnar 13/prevenar 13, ibrance, eliquis, lyrica, xeljanz, lipitor, enbrel and chantix/champix. those products accounted for 49% of our total revenues in 2019 . if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling, pricing and access pressures, supply shortages or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. a number of our products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. for example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. launched a generic version of viagra (a product in our upjohn business) in the u.s. in december 2017. in addition, lyrica (a product in our upjohn business) lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. also, the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. for additional information, see the item 1. business patents and other intellectual property rights section in this 2019 form 10-k. further, our alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. the average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the r&amp;d portfolio. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the scientific approach may not succeed for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near-term and over time. these strategies may not deliver the desired result, which could affect growth and profitability in the future. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 23 table of contents biosimilars abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in many international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biologic products, our biologic products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. for example, enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most european markets. the loss of patent rights, due to patent expiration or litigation, could trigger competition. we are developing and commercializing biosimilar medicines. risks related to our commercialization of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower uptake for biosimilars due to various factors that may vary for different biosimilars (e.g., anti-competitive practices, physician reluctance to prescribe biosimilars for existing patients taking the originator product, or misaligned financial incentives). see also the competitive products risk factor above. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if it receives regulatory approval. for example, a wider range of studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process. however, each additional indication and its reimbursement potential must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit, the increased complexity of development and manufacturing and the potential delays to approval of the lead indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which such potential challenges are foreseen and adequately addressed could affect our future results. international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, economic conditions, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. however, our strategies in emerging markets may not be successful and these countries may not continue to sustain these growth rates. for example, even though china is growing faster than most emerging markets, we face certain challenges in china due to government imposed pricing controls affecting certain pfizer medicines. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. even though we constantly monitor the evolving emerging markets for any unanticipated risk to pfizer, certain financial or political events in such markets can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. the impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals is increasing. a number of factors create a more challenging paradigm for pfizer given our growing specialty business portfolio such as formulary restrictions and increasing use of utilization management tools such as step edits, which can lead to higher negotiated rebates or discounts to health plans and pbms in the u.s., as well as the increasing use of health technology assessments and government pressures in markets around the world. product manufacturing, sales and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, sales or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, work stoppages or strikes, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions, shortages or stock-outs, reputational harm, product liability or unanticipated costs. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of component materials is delayed or unavailable and that the quality of such materials are substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout our internal and external supply network and/or comply with cgmps and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 24 table of contents risks to supply chain continuity and commercial operations as a result of natural (including hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or man-made disasters (including arson or terrorist attacks) at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, counterfeit goods and cyberattacks. as an example, we have been experiencing production issues with genotropin that will decrease revenue from that product. regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with cgmp or other applicable requirements. failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment, recall of a product, delays or denials of product approvals, import bans or denials of import certifications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in february 2017, for example, we received a warning letter from the fda communicating the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira's manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. we undertook corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda. in january 2018, the fda upgraded the status of pfizer's mcpherson manufacturing facility to vai based on an october 2017 inspection. the change to vai status lifted the compliance hold that the fda placed on approval of pending applications. in june 2018, the fda informed us that it had completed an evaluation of corrective actions and closed out the february 2017 warning letter issued to our mcpherson manufacturing facility after determining that we had addressed the violations contained in the warning letter. in july-august 2018, the fda conducted a follow-up inspection of our mcpherson facility and issued an inspection report noting several findings. pfizer responded to the fda's findings, and is in the process of implementing a corrective and preventive action plan to address the fda's concerns. on the basis of the july-august 2018 fda inspection, the fda changed the inspection classification of the mcpherson site to official action indicated (oai). future fda inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of these corrections implemented at the site. communication with the fda on the status of the mcpherson site is ongoing. as a result of the current oai classification, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our mcpherson site until the site status is upgraded, which upgrade would be based on a re-inspection by the fda. we have been experiencing shortages of products from the legacy hospira portfolio, among others, largely driven by capacity constraints, technical issues, supplier quality concerns or unanticipated increases in demand. we have made considerable progress in remediating issues at legacy hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables and have substantially improved supply from most of these sites. continuing product shortage interruption at these manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. in addition, in september 2017, meridian medical technologies, inc., a subsidiary of pfizer inc., received a warning letter from the fda asserting the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp and quality system regulations exist at meridian's manufacturing sites in st. louis, missouri and classifying the site as oai. meridian responded to the warning letter and committed to making improvements across the sites. we have made considerable progress addressing the concerns raised by the fda, and communication with the fda is ongoing. future fda inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of these corrections implemented at the site. as a result of the oai classification, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our st. louis sites. collaborations and other relationships with third parties we depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the research, development, manufacturing and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. to achieve expected longer term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments in such transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings. we rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development, manufacturing and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. we also outsource certain services to other parties, including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial recruitment and execution, clinical lab services, non-clinical research, safety services, integrated facilities management and other areas. failure by one or more of these third parties to complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations; failure by one or more of these parties to meet their contractual or other obligations to pfizer; failure of one or more of these parties to comply with applicable laws or regulations; or any disruption in the relationships between pfizer and one or more of these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval, manufacturing or commercialization of our products and product candidates, could expose us to suboptimal quality of service delivery or deliverables, could result in repercussions such as missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, erroneous data and supply disruptions, and could also result in non-compliance with legal or regulatory requirements or industry standards or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. biopharmaceutical wholesalers in 2019 , our largest biopharmaceutical wholesaler accounted for approximately 16% of our total revenues (and approximately 32% of our total u.s. revenues), and our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenues (and approximately 79% of our total u.s. revenues). if one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, such wholesaler might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 25 table of contents our results of operations. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, divestments, mergers and acquisitions. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframes or at all, and successfully integrate acquisitions. pursuing these opportunities may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, and could result in increased leverage and/or a downgrade of our credit ratings. where we acquire debt or equity securities as all or part of the consideration for business development activities, such as in connection with our contribution agreement entered into with allogene therapeutics, inc., the value of those securities will fluctuate, and may depreciate in value. we may not control the company in which we acquire securities, such as in connection with a divestiture or collaborative arrangement, and as a result, we will have limited ability to determine its management, operational decisions and policies. further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. legal proceedings or regulatory issues often arise as a result of activities that occurred at acquired companies, their partners and other third parties. in 2016, for example, we paid $784.6 million to resolve allegations related to wyeth's reporting of prices to the government with respect to protonix for activities that occurred prior to our acquisition of wyeth. for these and other reasons, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, and expected synergies and accretion may not be realized within the expected timeframes, or at all. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the lack of adequate inspection at certain international postal facilities as counterfeit medicines are increasingly delivered direct to customers in small parcel packages; the tendency to misuse and abuse medicines; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters compared to the large profits that can be earned by them from the sale of counterfeit medicines. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. pfizer's global reputation makes its medicines prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. counterfeit medicines continue to pose a significant risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeiters have been recently evolving to counterfeit life sustaining medications such as oncology medicines. this shift significantly increases the risk to patients who, for instance, unsuspectingly purchase counterfeit oncology medications from illicit online pharmacies operated by criminal counterfeiting organizations. failure to mitigate this new threat posed by counterfeit biopharma medicines could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we have an enterprise-wide strategy to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, and focused on educating patients and health care providers to reduce demand through awareness; increasing engagement and education of global law enforcement, customs and regulatory agencies about the growing prevalence of counterfeit life sustaining medicines; enhancing online identification and disruption efforts in partnership with pharmaceutical associations to optimize resources and impact; educating legislators about the risk to the security of the international drug supply chain by illicit manufacturing and distribution networks operated by transnational criminal organizations; supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; and using data analytics and risk assessment tools to better target the factors that give rise to the counterfeiting problem in the first place. however, our efforts and the efforts of others may not be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 26 table of contents risks related to government regulation and legal proceedings : pricing and reimbursement u.s. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls and limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. there have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. see the discussion regarding pricing and reimbursement in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states pricing and reimbursement section in this 2019 form 10-k. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in certain international markets, such as the different eu member states, the u.k., china, japan, canada and south korea, governments have significant power as large single payers to regulate prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control, particularly under recent global financing pressures. as a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. for example, china, in 2013, began to implement a qce process, under which numerous local generics have officially been deemed bioequivalents of a qualified reference drug. china's government subsequently initiated a pilot project for centralized vbp in 2018, which included 25 molecules of drugs and covered 11 major chinese cities. under this procurement model, a tender process was established whereby a certain portion of included molecule volumes were guaranteed to tender winners. this tender process was intended to contain healthcare costs by driving utilization of generics and bioequivalents that had passed qce, and has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent medicines. china's government began nationwide expansion of the vbp pilot in december 2019. see the discussion regarding these government initiatives in china in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states china pricing pressures section in this 2019 form 10-k. we anticipate that these initiatives will continue to increase pricing pressures on our drug products in china in the future. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions or the failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare reform the u.s. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. for example, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and established a major expansion of healthcare coverage, financed in part by a number of new rebates, discounts, and taxes that had a significant effect on our expenses and profitability. see the discussion in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states section in this 2019 form 10-k. we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. there is additional uncertainty given the ruling in december 2019 by the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the fifth circuit in texas v. azar that the individual mandate, which is a significant provision of the aca, is unconstitutional. the case has been remanded to a lower court to determine whether the individual mandate is inseparable from the entire aca, in which case the aca as a whole would be rendered unconstitutional. in the meantime, the remaining provisions of the law remain in effect. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and medicaid expansion under the aca are not material, so the impact of full invalidation of the law is expected to be limited. however, any future replacement of the aca may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage or dramatically increases industry taxes and fees. any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results. other u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, general budget control actions, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries (which is among the u.s. presidential administration's policy proposals), revisions to reimbursement of biopharmaceuticals under government programs (such as the implementation of international reference pricing for medicare part b drugs, or changes to protected class criteria for part d drugs), restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 27 table of contents u.s. entitlement reform in the u.s., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. the congressional budget office routinely releases options for reducing federal spending, and the december 2018 release includes proposals to cap federal medicaid payments to the states, and to require manufacturers to pay a minimum rebate on drugs covered under medicare part d for low-income beneficiaries. significant medicare reductions could also result if, for example, congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. these and any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. substantial regulation we are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the u.s., principally by the fda and the dea, and foreign regulatory authorities. failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, as well as reputational harm. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development are time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. the process from early discovery to design and adequate implementation of clinical trials to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, or unfavorable new clinical data and further analyses of existing clinical data, including results that may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. we may not be able to meet anticipated pre-clinical or clinical endpoints, commencement and/or completion dates for our pre-clinical or clinical trials, regulatory submission dates, regulatory approval dates and/or launch dates. similarly, we may not be able to successfully address all of the comments received from regulatory authorities such as the fda and the ema, or obtain approval from regulators. regulatory approval of drug or biologic products depends on myriad factors, including a regulator making a determination as to whether a product's benefits outweigh its known risks and a determination of the product's efficacy. additionally, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations and assessments by regulatory authorities. even after a drug or biologic is approved, it could be adversely affected by regulatory decisions impacting labeling, manufacturing processes, safety and/or other matters. we may not be able to receive or maintain favorable recommendations by technical or advisory committees, such as the advisory committee on immunization practices that may impact the use of our vaccines. further, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional or more extensive clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements. for these and other reasons discussed in item 1a. risk factors , we may not obtain the approvals we expect within the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase 4 trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. regulatory agencies in countries outside the u.s. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. for example, in july and december 2019, the fda updated the u.s. prescribing information for xeljanz to include three additional boxed warnings as well as changes to the indication and dosing for ulcerative colitis. in january 2020, the ema revised the summary of product characteristics (smpc) for xeljanz to include new warnings and recommendations for use of xeljanz due to an increased risk of venous thromboembolism and, due to an increased risk of infections, revised warnings in patients older than 65 years of age. these updates were based on the fda's and ema's review of data from the ongoing post-marketing requirement rheumatoid arthritis study a3921133. postmarketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products could implicate the entire class of products; and this, in turn, could have an adverse effect on the availability or commercial viability of our product(s) as well as other products in the class. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 28 table of contents interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply if we provide, offer, or promise something of value to a healthcare professional, other healthcare provider and/or government official. requirements or industry standards in the u.s. and certain jurisdictions abroad that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to track and disclose financial interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare providers increase government and public scrutiny of such financial interactions. if an interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. these risks may increase as both u.s. and foreign enforcement agencies adopt or increase enforcement efforts in respect of existing and new laws and regulations governing product promotion, marketing, anti-bribery and kickbacks, industry regulations, and codes of conduct. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, changes to existing tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory clarifications and/or interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of or changes to the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. for additional information, see the provision/(benefit) for taxes on income changes in tax laws and new accounting standards sections, and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies : adoption of new accounting standards in 2019 in our 2019 financial report. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where one or more third parties seeks damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of its patents by our commercial or other activities, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment, tax litigation and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe that our claims and defenses in matters in which we are a defendant are substantial, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations. like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to extensive regulation by government agencies in the u.s., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements, as well as reputational harm and increased public interest in the matter could result from government investigations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which we do business. in addition, in a qui tam lawsuit in which the government declines to intervene, the relator may still pursue a suit for the recovery of civil damages and penalties on behalf of the government. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the ffdca, the medicaid drug rebate program, the fcpa and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2019 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. in connection with the resolution of a u.s. government investigation concerning independent copay assistance organizations that provide financial assistance to medicare patients, in may 2018, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of the inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services, which is effective for a period of five pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 29 table of contents years. in the cia, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program requirements. breaches of the cia could result in severe sanctions against us. for additional information, including information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved in, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings in our 2019 financial report. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for legal and environmental contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. risks related to intellectual property : patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in policies or practices that may weaken its intellectual property framework (e.g., laws or regulations that promote or provide broad discretion to issue a compulsory license). in countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches that challenge our patent rights. most of the suits involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer. independent actions have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. such claims may also be brought as counterclaims to actions we bring to enforce our patents. we are also party to other patent damages suits in various jurisdictions pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry. we also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid in such proceedings, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. in october 2017, the patent trial and appeal board (ptab) refused to initiate proceedings as to two patents. in june 2018, the ptab ruled on another patent, holding that one claim was valid and that all other claims were invalid. the party challenging that patent has appealed the decision. in november 2019, the federal circuit vacated the ptab's ruling and requested that the ptab redecide the challenge. in march and june 2019, an additional patent was found invalid in separate proceedings by the ptab. we have appealed. challenges to other patents remain pending in jurisdictions outside the u.s. the invalidation of all of these patents in our pneumococcal portfolio could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 30 table of contents and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. third party intellectual property claims a properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. we are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not always be successful. part of our business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. these opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others, and in some circumstances we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable in order to achieve a first-to-market or early market position for our products. third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party. claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. we are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars. once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals products or biosimilars, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., at-risk launch). if one of our marketed products is found to infringe valid patent rights of a third party, such third party may be awarded significant damages, or we may be prevented from further sales of that product. such damages may be enhanced as much as three-fold in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries, like hospira, is found to have willfully infringed valid patent rights of a third party. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. risk related to technology : information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. as a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, our efforts may not prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 31 table of contents risks related to our strategic transactions : strategic acquisitions the success of any of our strategic acquisitions will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from combining these businesses with pfizer. we, for example, may fail to achieve cost savings anticipated with certain of these acquisitions, or such cost savings within the expected time frame. similarly, the accretive impact anticipated from certain of these acquisitions may not be realized or may be delayed. integration of these businesses may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. we also may fail to generate the revenue growth for the acquired business that we expected at the time of entering into the transaction. expected revenue from acquired products and product candidates also may be constrained by developments outside of our control. unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory hurdles and commercialization challenges may adversely impact revenue and income contribution from products and product candidates, including those acquired in these acquisitions. hospira, for example, has experienced manufacturing disruptions and substantial regulatory scrutiny due to quality issues. manufacturing problems, as well as any corrective actions and their operational implementation, could adversely impact the revenue we generate from products acquired from hospira and result in substantial unanticipated costs. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section in our 2019 financial report. pending combination of upjohn with mylan pfizer, mylan and upjohn may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the combination of upjohn with mylan (the combination), and regulatory agencies may delay or impose conditions on approval of the combination, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the combination. the consummation of the combination is subject to numerous conditions, including the receipt by pfizer of an internal revenue service ruling and an opinion of its tax counsel to the effect that, among other things, certain transactions related to the combination and certain related transactions will constitute a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, the approval of the combination by mylan shareholders, and other customary conditions, certain of which are dependent upon the actions of third parties. as a result of such conditions, pfizer cannot make any assurances that the combination will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. completion of the combination is also conditioned upon the receipt of certain required government consents and approvals, including certain approvals required from regulatory agencies. while pfizer, mylan and upjohn intend to pursue vigorously all required governmental approvals, the requirement to receive these approvals prior to the consummation of the combination could delay the completion of the combination, possibly for a significant period of time. any delay in the completion of the combination could diminish the anticipated benefits of the combination or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the combination, including delaying pfizer's ability to capitalize on its strategy of becoming a more focused, innovative company as well as upjohn's ability to optimize the execution of its growth strategies. pfizer may be subject to shareholder lawsuit, or other actions filed in connection with or in opposition to the combination or any related transactions. such litigation could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of pfizer and could prevent or delay the consummation of the combination. pfizer has expended and will continue to expend significant management time and resources and has incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses due to legal, advisory, printing and financial services fees related to the combination, including costs required to obtain the required government consents or defend or settle actions noted above. we expect to incur costs of approximately $500 million in connection with fully separating upjohn, inclusive of $145 million incurred in 2019. such charges will include costs and expenses related to separation of legal entities and anticipated transaction costs. many of these expenses must be paid regardless of whether the combination is consummated, and even if the expected benefits of the combination are not achieved. additionally, the completion of the combination, including for example, obtaining regulatory approvals, will require significant time and attention from pfizer management and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of our business. even if the combination is completed as anticipated, pfizer may not realize some or all of the expected benefits. furthermore, upjohn may experience operational challenges in integrating the upjohn and mylan businesses, which may also diminish the anticipated benefits of the combination. even if the combination is completed, the anticipated operational, financial, strategic and other benefits of the combination may not be achieved. there are many factors that could impact the anticipated benefits from the combination, including, among others, strategic adjustments required to reflect the nature of our business following the combination, any negative reaction to the combination by our customers and business partners, and increased risks resulting from pfizer becoming a company that is more focused on innovative medicines. in addition, pfizer has agreed to provide certain transition services to the combined company, generally for an initial period of 24 months following the completion of the combination (with certain possibilities for extension). these obligations under the transition agreements may result in additional expenses and may divert pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 32 table of contents pfizer's focus and resources that would otherwise be invested into maintaining or growing pfizer's business. an inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the combination, as well as any delays encountered in the process, could have an adverse effect on the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of our business. furthermore, the combination is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. even if upjohn and mylan successfully integrate, pfizer, upjohn and mylan cannot predict with certainty if or when the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and benefits resulting from the combination will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved. for example, the benefits from the combination may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies or by required capital expenditures related to the combined businesses. in addition, the quantification of synergies expected to result from the combination is based on significant estimates and assumptions that are subjective in nature and inherently uncertain. realization of any benefits and synergies could be affected by a number of factors beyond pfizer's, mylan's, upjohn's or the combined company's control, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, regulatory developments and the other risks described in these risk factors. the amount of synergies actually realized in the combination, if any, and the time periods in which any such synergies are realized, could differ materially from the synergies anticipated to be realized, regardless of whether the two business operations are combined successfully. if the integration is unsuccessful or if the combined company is unable to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the combination, there could be a material adverse effect on the combined company's share price, business, financial condition and results of operations. consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk on july 31, 2019, we completed the transaction in which we and gsk combined our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture that operates globally under the gsk consumer healthcare name. following the integration of the combined business, gsk intends to separate the joint venture as an independent company via a demerger of its equity interest to its shareholders and a listing of the combined business on the u.k. equity market. in february 2020, gsk announced the initiation of a two-year program to prepare for the separation of gsk into two companies, including a standalone consumer healthcare company. until the fifth anniversary of the closing of the transaction, gsk will have the sole right to decide whether and when to initiate a separation and listing, and may also sell all or part of its stake in the joint venture in a contemporaneous initial public offering. should a separation and listing occur during the first five years after closing, pfizer has the option to participate through the distribution of some or all of its equity interest in the joint venture to its shareholders. following a separation or listing, and subject to customary lock-up or similar restrictions, pfizer will also have the ability to sell its equity interest in the joint venture through the capital markets. after the fifth anniversary of the closing of the transaction, both gsk and pfizer will have the right to decide whether and when to initiate a separation and public listing of the joint venture. the planned separation and public listing transactions may not be initiated or completed within the expected time periods or at all, and both the timing and success of any separation and public listing transaction, as well as the value generated for pfizer or its shareholders in any such transaction, will be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. although pfizer is entitled to participate in any separation and listing transaction initiated by gsk prior to the fifth anniversary of the closing, it is not required to do so, and any future distribution or sale of pfizer's equity stake in the joint venture will similarly be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. pfizer's ability to complete any such future distribution or sale may also be impacted by the size of pfizer's retained equity stake at the time. the uncertainty relating to the separation and public listing transactions, their implementation, their timing and their yet to be determined effects on the joint venture's business may subject us and the joint venture to risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business and financial results. moreover, although we have certain consent, board representation and other governance rights with respect to the joint venture, pfizer is a minority owner of the joint venture. as a result, pfizer does not have control over the joint venture, its management or its policies and we may have business interests, strategies and goals that differ in certain respects from those of gsk or the joint venture. in addition, the joint venture will be subject to the risks associated with the joint venture's consumer healthcare business, and the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture may be affected by factors that are different from or in addition to those that previously affected the business, financial condition and results of operations of pfizer's historical consumer healthcare business. many of these factors are outside of our and the joint venture's control, and could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture. the success of the transaction will also depend, in part, on the joint venture's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost synergies from the transaction. these anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized or may not be realized within the expected time period. the joint venture's integration of pfizer's and gsk's historic consumer healthcare businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, costs, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. any material unanticipated issues arising from the integration process could negatively impact our stock price and our or the joint venture's future business and financial results . pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 33 table of contents other risks: the global economic environment like all businesses of our size, we are exposed to both global and industry-specific economic conditions. governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. as discussed above, government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions, but there can be no guarantee that changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. we continue to monitor credit, capital restrictions and economic situations in volatile regions and markets, especially where the ability to obtain u.s. dollars for local currency is unpredictable and challenging. we cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business. in addition, given that a significant portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the u.k., the formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu caused by brexit may pose certain implications for our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. details on how brexit will be finally executed and the impact on the remaining eu countries will dictate how and whether the broader eu will be impacted and what the resulting impact on our business may be. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment section in our 2019 financial report. public health epidemics or outbreaks could adversely impact our business. in december 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (covid-19) emerged in wuhan, hubei province, china . while initially the outbreak was largely concentrated in china and caused significant disruptions to its economy, it has now spread to several other countries and infections have been reported globally. the extent to which the coronavirus impacts our operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the duration of the outbreak, new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. in particular, the continued spread of the coronavirus globally could adversely impact our operations, including among others, our manufacturing and supply chain, sales and marketing and clinical trial operations and could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial results. we also continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts and impediments. if trade restrictions or tariffs reduce global economic activity, or if other factors lead to a general economic downturn, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 54% of our total 2019 revenues were derived from international operations, including 21% from europe and 24% from china, japan and the rest of asia. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the chinese renminbi, the japanese yen, the canadian dollar, the u.k. pound and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela and argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance . for additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk section in this 2019 form 10-k and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 34 table of contents outlook our financial guidance for 2020 and analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2019 financial report. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks related to interest-bearing investments and borrowings and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial risk management section in this 2019 form 10-k. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7 f . financial instruments : derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and note 11 . pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2019 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. from time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on libor, or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on libor. the u.k. financial conduct authority announced in july 2017 that it will no longer compel banks to submit rates that are currently used to calculate libor after 2021. various governing parties, including government agencies, are working on a benchmark transition plan for libor (and other interbank offered rates globally) . we are monitoring their progress, and we will likely amend contracts to accommodate any replacement rate where it is not already provided. as a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. for additional information, see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources libor section in our 2019 financial report. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. market fluctuations in our equity investments in 2018, we adopted a new accounting standard whereby certain equity investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value now recognized in net income. we expect the adoption of this new accounting standard may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of certain equity investments. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 4. other (income)/deductions net in our 2019 financial report and the item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial risk management section in this 2019 form 10-k. our pension benefit obligations and postretirement benefit obligations, net of our plan assets, are subject to volatility from changes in fair value of equity investments and other investment risk. for additional information, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2019 financial report. cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our agreement to combine upjohn with mylan, creating a new global pharmaceutical company, which is anticipated to close in mid-2020, our acquisition of array and the formation of the new consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk. intangible assets, goodwill and equity-method investments our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. if the associated r&amp;d effort is abandoned, the related ipr&amp;d assets will likely be written-off, and we will record an impairment charge. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charge may be significant. our other intangible pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 35 table of contents assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions section in our 2019 financial report. we also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. an impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. we may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 36 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial risk management section in this 2019 form 10-k. marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and pharmacists; mcos that provide insurance coverage, such as hospitals, integrated delivery systems, pbms and health plans; and employers and government agencies who hire mcos to provide health benefits to their employees. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that seeks to communicate the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and, in the case of our vaccines products in the u.s., we primarily sell directly to the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention, wholesalers, individual provider offices, retail pharmacies, and integrated delivery networks. we seek to gain access for our products on healthcare authority and pbm formularies, which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the pbms. pbms use various benefit designs, such as tiered co-pays for formulary pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 8 table of contents products, to drive utilization of products in preferred formulary positions. we may also work with payers on disease management programs that help to develop tools and materials to educate patients and physicians on key disease areas. in 2019 , our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenues (and approximately 79% of our total u.s. revenues). % of 2019 total revenues and u.s. revenues from major biopharmaceutical wholesalers and other customers patents and other intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to pfizer. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. for additional information, see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states intellectual property section in this 2019 form 10-k. in various markets, a period of regulatory exclusivity may be provided to certain drugs upon approval. the scope and term of such exclusivity will vary but, in general, the period of regulatory exclusivity will run concurrently with the term of any existing patent rights associated with the drug at the time of approval. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by our competitors, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, grant of an additional six-month pediatric extension and/or the granted patent term extension in the u.s. and japan and supplementary patent certificate in europe), are those for the medicines set forth in the table below. unless otherwise indicated, the years set forth in the table below pertain to the basic product patent expiration for the respective products. patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below, unless they have been granted by the issuing authority. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic or, as applicable, biosimilar competition after the expiration of the basic patent. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 9 table of contents drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year major eu basic product patent expiration year japan basic product patent expiration year lyrica 2019 (1) 2014 (2) 2022 (3) chantix/champix 2020 2021 2022 sutent 2021 2022 2024 ibrance 2023 2028 2028 vyndaqel/vyndamax 2024 2026 2026 inlyta 2025 2025 2025 xeljanz 2025 2028 (4) 2025 prevnar 13/prevenar 13 2026 __(5) 2029 eliquis (6) 2026 2026 2026 xtandi (7) 2027 * (7) * (7) xalkori 2029 2027 2028 besponsa 2030 2028 2028 (8) braftovi (9) 2031 * (9) * (9) mektovi (9) 2031 (10) * (9) * (9) bavencio (11) 2033 2032 2033 (1) lyrica lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. (2) lyrica regulatory exclusivity in the eu expired in july 2014. (3) lyrica is covered by a japanese method-of-use patent which expires in 2022. the patent is currently subject to an invalidation action. (4) xeljanz eu expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (5) the eu patent that covers the combination of the 13 serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 was revoked following an opposition and has now been withdrawn. there are other eu patents and pending applications covering the formulation, various aspects of the manufacturing process, and the combination of serotype conjugates of prevenar 13 that remain in force. (6) eliquis was developed and is being commercialized in collaboration with bms. (7) xtandi is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with astellas, which has exclusive commercialization rights for xtandi outside the u.s. pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international xtandi net sales. (8) besponsa japan expiry is provided by regulatory exclusivity. (9) pfizer has exclusive rights to braftovi and mektovi in the u.s. the pierre fabre group has exclusive rights to commercialize both products in europe and ono pharmaceutical co., ltd. has exclusive rights to commercialize both products in japan. pfizer receives royalties from the pierre fabre group and ono pharmaceutical co., ltd. on sales of braftovi and mektovi outside the u.s. (10) the u.s. expiration date in the table for mektovi is provided by a method-of-use patent. (11) bavencio is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with merck kgaa. the loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. however, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we typically lose exclusivity on these products, and generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce identical or highly similar products and sell them for a lower price. the date at which generic or biosimilar competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. however, when generic or biosimilar competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; or conversion of the active ingredient to otc products. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors patent protection section in this 2019 form 10-k. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim either do not infringe our patents or our patents are invalid; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, eliquis, ibrance and xeljanz. we will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. for additional pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 10 table of contents information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a1 . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings patent litigation in our 2019 financial report. recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity certain of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. for example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. lyrica lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. also, the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020. see the table above for the basic product patent expiries of our most significant products. we expect the impact of reduced revenues due to patent expiries will be significant in 2020, then moderating downward to a much lower level from 2021 through 2025. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors dependence on key in-line products section in this 2019 form 10-k. the following table provides information about certain products recently experiencing, or expected to experience in 2020 , patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the u.s., europe or japan. our financial results in 2019 and our financial guidance for 2020 reflect the impact of the loss of exclusivity of various products discussed below: (millions of dollars) product revenues in markets impacted products key dates (a) markets impacted year ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 viagra (b) june 2013 may 2014 december 2017 major european markets japan u.s. $ 134 $ 274 $ 850 lyrica (c) july 2014 june 2019 major european markets u.s. 2,208 3,852 3,901 pristiq (d) march 2017 u.s. 42 71 133 chantix (e) november 2020 u.s. 899 838 742 (a) unless otherwise noted, key dates indicate patent-based expiration dates. (b) as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva launched a generic version of viagra in the u.s. in december 2017. (c) lyrica lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. (d) as a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of pristiq launched in the u.s. in march 2017. (e) the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020, which includes the fda's grant of pediatric exclusivity that extended the period of market exclusivity in the u.s. for chantix for an additional six months from may 2020. biologic products our biologic products, including benefix, refacto, xyntha, bavencio, prevnar 13/prevenar 13 and enbrel (we market enbrel outside the u.s. and canada), already face, or may face in the future, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). in the u.s., such biosimilars would reference our originator biologic products approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a follow-on recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin, that was approved under the ffdca. biosimilars are versions of biologic medicines that have been developed and proven to be highly similar to the original biologic in terms of safety and efficacy and that have no clinically meaningful differences in safety, purity or potency. biosimilars have the potential to offer high-quality, lower-cost alternatives to biologic medicines. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and, since the passage of the aca in 2010, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. in europe, the european commission grants marketing authorizations for biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals. as part of our business strategy, we are capitalizing on our expertise in biologics manufacturing, as well as our regulatory and commercial strengths, to develop and commercialize biosimilar medicines. some of the biosimilars that we currently market include inflectra, nivestym, retacrit, zirabev, ruxience and trazimera in the u.s.; inflectra, retacrit, nivestim and trazimera in the eu; and ixifi, trazimera, zirabev and ruxience in japan. see the item 1a. risk factors biosimilars section in this 2019 form 10-k. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 11 table of contents we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biologic products. likewise, as we develop, manufacture and seek to launch biosimilars, patents may be asserted against us. international one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, we have seen some improvement in global protection of intellectual property rights. for additional information, see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states intellectual property section in this 2019 form 10-k. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our competitors include other worldwide research-based biopharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic and biosimilar drug manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat diseases or indications similar to those treated by our major products. this competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in r&amp;d, as well as our business development transactions, both designed to result in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further demonstrating the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians, payers and global health authorities. we also seek to continually enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. we believe that we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals, and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. our vaccines business may face competition from the introduction of alternative vaccines. for example, prevnar 13 may face competition in the form of competitor vaccines, including vaccines with additional serotypes or next-generation pneumococcal conjugate vaccines prior to or after the expiration of its patents, which may adversely affect our future results. our generics and biosimilars businesses compete with branded products from competitors, as well as other generics and biosimilars manufacturers. globally, pfizer sells generic versions of pfizer's, as well as certain competitors', solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products. we also sell biosimilars of certain inflammation &amp; immunology and oncology biologic medicines globally. we seek to maximize the opportunity to establish a first-to-market or early market position for our generic injectable drugs and biosimilars, as a first-to-market position provides customers a lower-cost alternative immediately when available and also may provide us with potentially higher levels of sales and profitability until other generic or biosimilar competitors enter the market. managed care organizations the evolution of managed care in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 300 million people in the u.s. now have some form of health insurance coverage. due to the expansion of health insurance coverage (see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states section in this 2019 form 10-k), the marketing of prescription drugs to both consumers and the entities that manage this expanded coverage in the u.s. continues to grow in importance. the influence of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing number of patients receiving coverage through mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their ability to negotiate, as well as their importance to pfizer. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices as well as revenues. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically negotiate prices with pharmaceutical providers by using pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 12 table of contents formularies (which are lists of approved medicines available to members of the mcos), clinical protocols (requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine), volume purchasing, long-term contracts and their ability to influence volume and market share of prescription drugs. in addition, by placing branded medicines on higher-tier status in their formularies (leading to higher patient co-pays) or non-preferred tier status, mcos transfer a portion of the cost of the medicine to the patient, resulting in significant out-of-pocket expenses for the patient, especially for chronic treatments. this financial disincentive is a tool for mcos to manage drug costs and channel patients to medicines preferred by the mcos. mcos also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing and copay accumulator programs to improve their cost containment efforts. we are closely monitoring these newer approaches and developing appropriate strategies to respond to them. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers of mco formularies. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restrictions can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population and beyond. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on mco formularies. however, increasingly our branded products are being placed on the higher tiers or in a non-preferred status. mcos also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors' offices and clinics as another way to manage costs. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. the aca has accelerated payment reform by distributing risk across mcos and other stakeholders in care delivery with the intent of improving quality while reducing costs, which creates pressure on mcos to tie reimbursement to defined outcomes. for additional information, see the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states healthcare reform section in this 2019 form 10-k. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that our branded products face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. several competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. generic competitors often operate without large r&amp;d expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. in china, for example, we are expected to face further intensified competition by certain generic manufacturers in 2020, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be chemically and therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. in a small subset of states, prescribing physicians are able to expressly prevent such substitution. favoring generics may reduce sales of our branded products. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. in 2019 , we experienced periodic shortages of select materials due to constrained capacity or operational challenges with the associated suppliers. supplier management activities are ongoing to work to ensure the necessary supply to meet our requirements for these materials. no significant impact to our operations is anticipated in 2020. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 13 table of contents government regulation and price constraints pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the countries in which they do business. certain laws and regulations that govern pfizer's business are discussed below. general . our business has been and will continue to be subject to numerous laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and actions by various governmental bodies. for additional information on these proceedings and actions, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings in our 2019 financial report. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, warning letters and product recalls or seizures, delays in product approvals, as well as limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, could result from such proceedings and actions. in the united states drug regulation . in the u.s., biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulation by the fda, including regulations that govern, among other things, the safety and efficacy of our medicines, clinical trials, advertising and promotion, manufacturing, labeling and record keeping. our products are also subject to post-market surveillance under the ffdca and its implementing regulations with respect to drugs, as well as the public health service act and its implementing regulations with respect to biologics. other u.s. federal agencies, including the dea, also regulate certain of our products. many of our activities also are subject to the jurisdiction of the sec. biopharmaceutical companies seeking to market a product in the u.s. must first test the product to demonstrate that it is safe and effective for its intended use. if, after evaluation, the fda determines the product is safe (i.e., its benefits outweigh its known risks) and effective, then the fda will approve the product for marketing, issuing a new drug application or biologics license application, as appropriate. companies seeking to market a generic prescription drug must scientifically demonstrate that the generic drug is bioequivalent to the innovator drug. the abbreviated new drug application, or generic drug application, must show, among other things, that the generic drug is pharmaceutically equivalent to the brand, the manufacturer is capable of making the drug correctly, and the proposed label is the same as that of the innovator/brand drug's label. even after a drug or biologic is approved for marketing, it may still be subject to postmarketing commitments or postmarketing requirements. postmarketing commitments are studies or clinical trials that the drug or biologic sponsor has agreed to conduct, but are not required by law and/or regulation. postmarketing requirements include studies and clinical trials that sponsors are required to conduct, by law and/or regulation, as a condition of approval. postmarketing studies or clinical trials can be required in order to assess a known risk or demonstrate clinical benefit for drugs or biologics approved pursuant to accelerated approval. if a company fails to meet its postmarketing requirements, the fda may assess a civil monetary penalty, issue a warning letter or deem the drug or biologic misbranded. once a drug or biologic is approved, the fda must be notified of any modifications to the product and the fda may also require a manufacturer to submit additional studies or conduct clinical trials. in addition, we are also required to report adverse events and comply with cgmps, as well as advertising and promotion regulations. failure to comply with the ffdca may subject us to administrative and/or judicial sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls, seizures, delays in product approvals, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution. biosimilar regulation. the aca created a framework for the approval of biosimilars (also known as follow-on biologics) following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. under the aca, biosimilar applications may not be submitted until four years after the approval of the reference innovator biologic. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation and approval of new biosimilars. through fda approvals and the issuance of draft and final guidance, the fda has addressed a number of issues related to the biosimilars approval pathway, such as the labeling expectations for biosimilars. for example, in 2019, the fda issued final guidance regarding the standards for demonstrating interchangeability with a u.s.-licensed reference product. in addition, in 2017, the biosimilar user fee act was reauthorized for a five-year period, which led to a significant increase in the fda's biosimilar user fee revenues, thereby providing the fda with additional resources to process biosimilar applications. for example, since the enactment of the newly authorized fee structure, the fda estimates its revenues from biosimilar user fees generally will exceed $40 million. sales and marketing laws and regulations . the marketing practices of u.s. biopharmaceutical companies are generally subject to various federal and state healthcare laws that are intended, among other things, to prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. these laws include anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a biopharmaceutical company from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying anything of value to generate business, including purchasing or prescribing of a particular product. false claims laws generally prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, any claims for payment for goods (including drugs or biologics) or services to third-party payers (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent and generally treat claims generated through kickbacks as false or fraudulent. violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions and/or exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including medicare and medicaid). the federal government pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 14 table of contents and various states also have enacted laws to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical companies. the laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and healthcare providers, require disclosure to the federal or state government and the public of such interactions, and/or require the adoption of compliance standards or programs. many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements or require administrative guidance for implementation. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our activities could be subject to the penalties under the pertinent laws and regulations. pricing and reimbursement . pricing and reimbursement for our pharmaceutical products depends in part on government regulation. pfizer must offer discounted pricing or rebates on purchases of pharmaceutical products under various federal and state healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program, the federal ceiling price drug pricing program, the 340b drug pricing program and the medicare part d program. pfizer must also report specific prices to government agencies under healthcare programs, such as the medicaid drug rebate program and medicare part b. the calculations necessary to determine the prices reported are complex and the failure to report prices accurately may expose pfizer to penalties. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues overview section and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 g . basis of presentation and significant accounting policies : revenues and trade accounts receivable in our 2019 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. government and private third-party payers routinely seek to manage utilization and control the costs of our products. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including proposed action on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. there continues to be considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing, and measures to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals are being considered by congress, the presidential administration and select states. for example, recent legislation revised how manufacturers calculate the average manufacturer price on branded drugs with authorized generics under the medicaid drug rebate program, which the congressional budget office has estimated will reduce medicaid costs by over $3 billion over the next decade. proposals for even more far-reaching reform, such as immediately eliminating or phasing out private health insurance, are being proposed by some democratic candidates for u.s. president. in particular, several states have enacted or are considering transparency laws that require prescription drug manufacturers to report to the state and make public price increases, and sometimes to provide a written justification for the increase. in addition to new state transparency laws and the introduction of several federal pricing bills, we have also seen the presidential administration introduce proposals related to importation and express interest in international reference pricing in medicare part b. we expect to see continued focus in regulating pricing resulting in additional legislation and regulation that could adversely impact revenue. in addition, u.s. government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services associated with the provision of our products. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors u.s. entitlement reform section in this 2019 form 10-k. also, the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain pharmaceutical products under medicaid. restrictions exist for some pfizer products under certain state medicaid programs. as another example, access to our products under the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans with which state medicaid agencies contract to provide services to medicaid beneficiaries. states continue to explore options for controlling healthcare costs related to medicaid and other state healthcare programs, including the implementation of supplemental rebate agreements under the medicaid drug rebate program that are tied to patient outcomes. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration among pharmacy chains and wholesalers, who collectively are the primary purchasers of our pharmaceutical products in the u.s., and pbms will increase pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. for additional information, see the item 1a. risk factors managed care trends section in this 2019 form 10-k. the potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. many employers have adopted high deductible health plans, which can increase out-of-pocket costs for medicines. this is a trend that is likely to continue. private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. overall, there is increasing pressure on u.s. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions and improved patient outcomes. these new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. at the same time, these models can also promote utilization of drugs by encouraging physicians to screen and diagnose and consider drugs as a means of forestalling more costly medical interventions. we believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. we work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. in addition, in response to the evolving u.s. and global healthcare spending landscape, we work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major u.s. payers throughout the product-development process to better pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 15 table of contents understand how these entities value our compounds and products. further, we seek to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs . healthcare reform. there have been significant efforts at the federal and state levels to reform the healthcare system by enhancing access to healthcare, improving the delivery of healthcare and further rationalizing payment for healthcare. we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. there is additional uncertainty given the ruling in december 2019 by the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the fifth circuit in texas v. azar that the individual mandate, which is a significant provision of the aca, is unconstitutional. the case has been remanded to a lower court to determine whether the individual mandate is inseparable from the entire aca, in which case the aca as a whole would be rendered unconstitutional. in the meantime, the remaining provisions of the law remain in effect. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and medicaid expansion under the aca are not material, so the impact of full invalidation of the law is expected to be limited. however, any future replacement for the aca may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage or dramatically increases industry taxes and fees. any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results. anti-corruption. the fcpa prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. data privacy. pfizer collects personal data as part of its regular business activities. the collection and use of this data is subject to privacy and data security laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory or other governmental bodies. for example, we are subject to the california consumer privacy act (ccpa). the ccpa, which came into effect on january 1, 2020, imposes numerous obligations on us, including a duty to disclose the categories of personal data that we collect, sell, or share about california consumers, and gives those consumers rights regarding their personal data. noncompliance with any of these laws could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop non-compliant activities, and could damage our reputation and harm our business. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most countries outside the u.s. new drug approvals. in the eu, the approval of new drugs may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure, the decentralized procedure or the eu centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the centralized procedure, managed by the ema, results in one single authorization for the whole eu, which provides the most rapid and efficient means of gaining approval across the eu and is the one most commonly used for new products. in china, the regulatory system historically presented numerous challenges for the pharmaceutical industry, as its requirements for drug development and registration were often inconsistent with u.s. or other international standards. in recent years, however, china has introduced reforms and draft reforms, which are discussed in more detail below, that attempt to address these challenges. furthermore, in 2017, the china regulatory authority, the national medical products administration (nmpa), became a member of the international council for harmonization (ich), which has resulted in greater adoption of international technical guidelines and practices by the government. 2019 was another active year in this respect, with a number of reforms coming into effect, and more proposals and drafts being issued for consultation. in japan, the pmda is the point of entry for businesses looking to sell drugs in the country. the pmda, which is involved in a wide range of regulatory activities, including clinical studies, approvals, postmarketing reviews and pharmaceuticals safety, must approve an application before a new drug product may be marketed in japan. the pmda also offers consultations on clinical trials of new drugs and provides advice on product classifications and approvals. health authorities in many middle and lower income countries require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (i.e., similar to the authority of the fda or the ema) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. many authorities also require local clinical data in the country's population in order to receive final marketing approval. pharmacovigilance. in the eu, the ema's pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee has the responsibility for reviewing and making recommendations on product safety issues for the eu authorities. eu regulators may require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization safety and efficacy studies at the time of approval, or at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional extensive requirements regarding adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. outside developed markets such as the eu and japan, pharmacovigilance requirements vary and are generally not as extensive, but there is a trend toward increasing regulation. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 16 table of contents pricing and reimbursement . certain governments, including the different eu member states, the u.k., china, japan, canada, south korea and some other international markets, provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global financing pressures. governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, forced localization as a condition of market access, international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries), quality consistency evaluation processes and volume-based procurement. in addition, the international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and incomplete value assessments across countries has led to varying access to quality medicines in many markets and some third-party trade in our products between countries. in particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries. in addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the united nations, including the world health organization (who), and the organization for economic cooperation and development, are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations. in 2019, the who continued exerting pressure on pharmaceutical pricing practices by supporting strategies to reduce medicine prices, including calling for greater transparency around the cost of research and development and production of medicines, as well as disclosure of net prices. in japan, the pricing environment for innovative medicines further deteriorated in 2019 with the introduction of a health technology assessment (hta) system to inform price adjustments of healthcare technologies after launch. expansion of this system for reimbursement decisions, as seen in other hta markets, remains a risk. while significant challenges remain, the 2020 drug pricing reform package, unlike the last reform package in 2018, is not expected to fundamentally change the access landscape. furthermore, the eligibility criteria for the price maintenance premium, a key policy that protects against price erosion for certain products, is expected to be somewhat enhanced while expedited regulatory pathways are codified in law. in canada, the patented medicine prices review board (pmprb) released draft guidelines to implement new pricing regulations in november 2019, which will go into force in july 2020. these regulations drop the u.s. from the reference basket of countries used to determine price and add economic factors for setting ceiling prices for new medicines. an initial analysis of the potential impact of these proposed changes to the pmprb regulations estimated an approximately $26 billion reduction in industry revenues over the next decade. china pricing pressures . in china, healthcare is largely driven by a public payer system, with public medical insurance as the largest single payer for pharmaceuticals, and pricing pressures have increased in recent years. government officials have consistently emphasized the importance of improved health outcomes, the need for healthcare reform and decreased drug prices as key indicators of progress towards reform. while the government provides basic health insurance for the vast majority of chinese citizens, that insurance is not adequate to cover many innovative medicines, and alternative funding sources for innovative medicines remain suboptimal. in 2019, china's government negotiated with companies to add approximately 90 innovative drugs (mainly oncology medicines) to the national reimbursement drug list. this builds on 60 drugs already added through negotiation in 2017 and 2018. prices for drugs have been reduced dramatically through this government-led process. while these negotiations have included a path to access for companies, market access is not assured. in addition, significant questions about the processes and negotiations for provincial tendering remain, as well as the need for multi-layered negotiations across provincial, municipal and hospital levels. in the off-patent space, in 2013, china began to implement a quality consistency evaluation (qce) process in order to improve the quality of domestically-manufactured generic drugs, primarily by requiring such drugs to pass a test to assess their bioequivalence to a qualified reference drug (typically the originator drug). in 2018, numerous local generics were officially deemed bioequivalent under qce. a pilot project for centralized volume-based procurement (vbp) was then initiated including 25 molecules of drugs covering 11 major chinese cities. under this procurement model, a tender process has been established where a certain portion of included molecule volumes are guaranteed to tender winners. the program is intended to contain healthcare costs by driving utilization of generics that have passed qce, which has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent medicines. upjohn and most off-patent originators were not successful in the first bidding process under this pilot, which was finalized in december 2018 and implemented in march 2019, and most contracts went to local generic companies. the first bidding process resulted in significant price cuts by the successful bidders, with some bidders reducing the price of their products by as much as 96 percent, as companies attempted to secure volumes on the chinese pharmaceutical market. the drugs that lost the bidding were also requested to reduce their selling price up to 30 percent based on the price difference with the successful bidder. china's government began nationwide expansion of the vbp pilot in december 2019. the expanded model, which is being implemented nationwide, applies to certain drugs that are purchased for public hospitals as well as some military and private medical institutions. as in the first bidding process, our upjohn business unit and most originator brands were not successful in pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 17 table of contents the bidding process for this nationwide expansion, and those contracts mostly went to local chinese generic companies. the qce-qualified generic makers of atorvastatin and amlodipine bid aggressively, lowering prices even further from the march 2019 tender. our upjohn business unit continues to take steps to mitigate the revenue impact of these initiatives but anticipates that they will continue to affect our upjohn business in china in the future. we expect to utilize our presence in the retail channel, private hospitals and tendering capabilities to mitigate some of these pricing pressures. in addition, we believe that our geographic expansion to under-penetrated and lower-tiered cities and counties and additional focus on non-tendered products will increase sales volumes in greater china and partially mitigate pressures from qce. in late 2019, china announced another round of expansion of the national vbp program, which covers 33 new molecules, including biopharma's zithromax tablets and diflucan tablets and no upjohn products. biopharma was not successful in the bidding process for this expansion. furthermore, the chinese government has discussed moving toward efforts to unify the reimbursement price between qce-approved generic medicines and the applicable original medicines. the government currently plans to implement this universal reimbursement price initiative within the next two to three years. if this policy is implemented, the new reimbursement level for upjohn's products will likely be lower than the current reimbursement level, placing additional pressures on price and/or patient copays. there remains uncertainty as to whether, when and how this policy may be officially implemented. the chinese government could also enact other policies that may increase pricing pressures or have the effect of reducing the volume of sales available to upjohn's products. this potential policy, and any other policies like it that could increase pricing and copay pressures on upjohn's drug products in china, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the government has indicated that additional post-loe drugs could be subjected to qce qualification in future rounds, which could also be tied to volume-based procurement. the scope of future qce products and timing of any program expansion is currently unknown, making it difficult to determine the impact on pfizer's business and financial condition. we will continue to monitor the market for developments. eu regulatory changes . the eu adopted a new clinical trials regulation in may 2014, but its implementation has been delayed by the need for the eu authorities to establish new technical systems. this regulation is aimed at simplifying and harmonizing the administrative processes and governance of clinical trials in the eu and will require increased public posting of clinical trial results. it is currently not anticipated to be fully implemented until the first half of 2022 at the earliest. brexit . in june 2016, the u.k. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the eu, which is commonly referred to as brexit . the u.k. left the eu on january 31, 2020 with status quo arrangements through a transition period scheduled to end on december 31, 2020. the consequences of the u.k. leaving the eu and the terms of the future trading relationship continue to be highly uncertain, which may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. however, both the u.k. and the eu have issued detailed guidance for the industry on how medicines, medical devices and clinical trials will be separately regulated in their respective territories. pfizer has substantially completed its preparations for brexit, having made the changes necessary to meet relevant regulatory requirements in the eu and the u.k., through the transition period and afterwards, especially in the regulatory, research, manufacturing and supply chain areas. between 2018 and 2021, we expect to spend up to approximately $60 million in one-time costs to make these adaptations. for additional information on brexit, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment section in our 2019 financial report . china regulatory changes . in an effort to encourage drug innovation and reduce backlogs for existing applications for drug approval, in recent years, the nmpa has unveiled numerous reform initiatives for china's drug approval system and engaged in significant efforts to build its capabilities. the nmpa divides drugs into new drugs and generics, with the definition for new drugs changed from china new to global new. this means that drugs previously approved in other markets (such as the u.s. or europe) are not considered new drugs under china's regulatory regime. this change in definition creates more opportunities for china's domestic drug manufacturers than for multinational firms, because multinational firms have historically had significant competitive advantage in successfully achieving regulatory approvals for drugs first approved outside of china. revisions in 2019 made clear, however, that regulatory approval from the fda or the ema would no longer be required for approval of imported drugs, though a notable exception persists for imported vaccines, which still require prior approval from a reference regulatory agency such as the fda. in 2019, china published a revision to its drug administration law and introduced a marketing authorization holder system, which grants the nmpa more authority over regulating manufacturers and provides manufacturers more flexibility in contract manufacturing arrangements and manufacturing site transfers. while challenges remain, a number of other policy changes are streamlining and accelerating approvals of domestic and imported drugs in china. these reforms, along with china's june 2018 elevation to the ich management committee, are expected to pave the way for integration of chinese regulations with global practices. these changes include introducing more streamlined processes for maintaining renewal of product registrations, reduction in importing testing requirements, and establishing an expedited registration pathway for drugs to treat rare diseases and serious, life-threatening illnesses with no effective treatment. though certain details on implementation are unclear (e.g., evolving list of qualified rare diseases and no guidance on what qualifies as serious, life threatening), the nmpa aims to build expedited pathways for certain categories of products similar to the u.s. and european regulatory systems. additionally, the nmpa published changes to china's registration requirements that align more with international practices, including a 60-day review timeline for clinical trial authorizations and pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 18 table of contents guidance for acceptance of foreign clinical data and the utilization of real world data in drug development and regulatory decision making. although a number of regulatory changes better support china's inclusion in simultaneous global drug development, unique regulatory requirements continue to pose challenges for multinational companies, including china's human genetic resources process for exporting clinical trial samples (which adds months to starting a clinical trial in china); mismatched china pharmacopoeia and manufacturing data requirements that require standards exceeding acceptable practices in the u.s., eu, and japan; and unpredictable and inconsistent clinical trial inspection practices. healthcare provider transparency and disclosures. a number of countries have implemented laws requiring (or their industry associations have recommended) disclosure of transfers of value made by pharmaceutical companies to healthcare providers. for example, the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations' disclosure code requires all members, including pfizer, to disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and healthcare organizations. intellectual property . the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property rights (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005, with an extension until 2033 for least-developed countries. while we still face patent grant, enforcement and other intellectual property challenges around the world, some countries have made improvements. we include stronger patent protection among the factors we consider for continued business expansion in other participant countries. while the global intellectual property environment has generally improved following wto-trips and bilateral/multilateral trade agreements, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool to force innovators to accept less than fair value for medicines, as well as to protect their local pharmaceutical industries. considerable political and economic pressure exists to weaken current intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as more restrictive standards for obtaining patents and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods), revocation of patents, laws or regulations that promote or provide broad discretion to issue a compulsory license, weak intellectual property enforcement and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers, as well as on underscoring the importance of strong intellectual property systems for local innovative industries and helping improve patients' access to innovative medicines. in developed countries as well, including the eu, we are facing an increasingly challenging intellectual property environment. as part of the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement (ceta), canada now provides sui generis protection, commonly referred to as patent term restoration, for patent term extensions for basic patents; however, the extension is capped at two years, whereas the international norm is five years. in addition, the implementing regulations may create obstacles for patentees applying for patent term restoration via a certificate of supplementary protection (csp), and canada's proposed drug pricing reforms may negatively impact the benefit of a csp. furthermore, the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca) will, when implemented, require canada and mexico to make certain improvements to their current intellectual property regimes, including the establishment of patent term adjustment for unreasonable delays in the grant of patents. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved in recent years, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization provisions, although china remained on the u.s. trade representative's priority watch list for 2019 due to ongoing enforcement challenges and china's failure to make certain structural reforms. further, the standards for patentability in china remain more restrictive than in other major markets, including the u.s., europe and japan. also, while a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent. for example, the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards have been used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. in 2019, the regulatory authority granted marketing approval to generic products while the reference product in each case are still subject to patent protection, and there is no effective legal means to resolve patent disputes prior to the marketing of those infringing drugs. the u.s. and china recently signed an initial agreement in which china has committed to address some patent-related concerns, and both governments have indicated that they will continue bilateral discussions on implementation of these commitments and other intellectual property issues in 2020. in brazil and other latin american countries, the role of health regulatory authorities in reviewing patents (e.g., national health surveillance agency in brazil), restrictive patentability rules, ambiguity regarding the term of certain patents and backlogs at patent agencies may limit our ability to protect our products through patents. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. additionally, an increased threat of issuance of compulsory licenses for biopharmaceutical products exists, which adds to business uncertainty. in india, we have seen some progress in terms of expediting patent approval processes to reduce pendency rates and implementing training programs to enhance enforcement. despite these positive steps, gaps remain in terms of addressing longstanding intellectual property concerns. for example, policies favoring compulsory licensing of patents, the tendency of the pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 19 table of contents indian patent office to revoke pharmaceutical patents in opposition proceedings (both pre- and post-grant), and restrictive standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to safeguard many of our inventions and our investments in innovation. these policies heighten the risk of additional patent challenges targeting innovative pharmaceutical products, especially in areas perceived as being important to the public health of the population. challenges against pfizer patents in india are ongoing. data privacy. outside of the u.s., many countries where we conduct business, including the eu, have privacy and data security laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal data, and we must comply with these laws and regulations as well. one applicable law is the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr). the gdpr imposes detailed obligations on companies that collect, use, or otherwise process personal data and penalties for noncompliance may include fines of up to 4 percent of the company's global annual revenue. additionally, the legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving as countries continue to adopt privacy and data security laws. any inability to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards or other legal obligations regarding data protection or privacy could result in additional costs and liability to pfizer as well as reputational harm and may adversely affect our business. environmental matters most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a3 . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings commercial and other matters in our 2019 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2019 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $31 million ; and other environment-related expenses $136 million . while capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not currently anticipate they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. climate change presents risks to our operations, including the potential for additional regulatory requirements and associated costs, and the potential for more frequent and severe weather events and water availability challenges that may impact our facilities and those of our suppliers. for example, in 2017, our manufacturing and commercial operations in puerto rico were impacted by hurricanes as our three manufacturing sites in puerto rico sustained damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting puerto rico overall. all three sites resumed operations, and remediation activities were completed in 2018. we cannot provide assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future; however, we have a program for reviewing our vulnerability to potential weather-related risks and other natural disasters and we update our assessments periodically. to date, we have concluded that, because of our facility locations, our existing distribution networks and our controls, we do not anticipate that these risks will have a material impact on pfizer in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5 . tax matters in our 2019 financial report is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we generally believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 88,300 people in our operations throughout the world. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran, as well as entities and individuals designated under executive order 13382 and executive order 13224. as a global biopharmaceutical company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2019 , our activities included supplying medicine and medical products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran. we ship pfizer products to iran, and conduct related activities, in accordance with licenses issued by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. and non-u.s. governmental entities, and in line with our corporate policies. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of patients and consumers in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our corporate policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2019 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2019 form 10-k and in our 2019 annual report to shareholders contain forward-looking statements. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as will, may, could, likely, ongoing, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, assume, target, forecast, guidance, goal, objective, aim, seek and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, expectations for our product pipeline, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, revenue contribution, growth, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits, strategic reviews, capital allocation objectives, plans for and prospects of our acquisitions and other business-development activities, benefits anticipated from the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, government regulation, our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities or prospects, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, including, among others, the expected timing, benefits, charges and/or costs in connection with our agreement to combine upjohn with mylan to create a new global pharmaceutical company, viatris, set forth in the item 1. business about pfizer and item 1a. risk factors pending combination of upjohn with mylan sections in this 2019 form 10-k and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives and our strategy sections and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1a. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies basis of presentation in our 2019 financial report; the expected impact of patent expiries on our business set forth in the item 1. business patents and other intellectual property rights section in this 2019 form 10-k and in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment industry-specific challenges intellectual property rights and collaboration/licensing rights section in our 2019 financial report; the expected competition from certain generic manufacturers in china in the item 1. business competition generic products and item 1a. risk factors generic competition sections in this 2019 form 10-k; the anticipated costs related to our preparations for brexit set forth in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states brexit section in this 2019 form 10-k and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment section in our 2019 financial report; the availability of raw materials for 2020 set forth in item 1. business raw materials in this 2019 form 10-k; the expected pricing pressures on our products in the u.s. and internationally and the anticipated impact to our business set forth in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints and item 1a. risk factors pricing and reimbursement sections in this 2019 form 10-k; the anticipated impact of climate change on pfizer set forth in item 1. business environmental matters in this 2019 form 10-k; the expected demerger of the gsk consumer healthcare joint venture set forth in the item 1a. risk factors consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk section in this 2019 form 10-k; the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019 and our expectations regarding growth set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy organizing for growth section in our 2019 financial report; our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment and the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2019 financial report; the anticipated costs and savings from certain of our initiatives, including transforming to a more focused company initiative, set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook transforming to a more focused company and costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives sections and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 3 . restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives in our 2019 financial report; our plans for increasing investment in the u.s. set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy capital allocation and expense management increasing investment in the u.s. section in our 2019 financial report; the financial guidance set forth in the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our financial guidance for 2020 section in our 2019 financial report; the expected impact of the advisory committee on immunization practices recommendation for prevnar 13 for adults 65 and older on prevnar 13's revenues set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product discussion prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (biopharma) section in our 2019 financial report; the expected impact of updates to the prescribing information for xeljanz on its growth set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income revenues selected product discussion xeljanz (biopharma) section in our 2019 financial report; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; the planned capital spending set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section in our 2019 financial report; the expected payments to our unfunded u.s. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans and expected funding obligations set forth in the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations section; and the voluntary contribution we expect to make during 2020 for the u.s. qualified plans set forth in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11 . pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2019 financial report. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 21 table of contents we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected, projected or historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business, industry and operations : managed care trends private third-party payers, such as health plans, and other managed care entities, such as pbms, continue to take action to manage the utilization of drugs and control the cost of drugs. consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of mcos and other private third-party payers. private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by taking into account discounts in connection with decisions about formulary inclusion or favorable formulary placement. failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or favorable formulary placement for our products, or failure to obtain such formulary placement at favorable pricing, could adversely impact revenue. private third-party payers often implement formularies with copayment tiers to encourage utilization of certain drugs and have also been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. private third-party payers are also implementing new initiatives like so-called copay accumulators (policies that provide that the value of copay assistance does not count as out-of-pocket costs that are applied toward deductibles) that can shift more of the cost burden to manufacturers and patients. this cost shifting has increased consumer interest and input in medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause consumers to favor lower cost generic alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. third-party payers also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing, and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts, and are also increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. private third-party payer market consolidates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. in addition, our patented products may face generic competition before patent exclusivity expires, including upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products. generic competition could lead to our loss of a major portion of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. a number of our products have experienced significant generic competition over the last few years. for example, lyrica (a product in our upjohn business) lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. also, the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020. in china, we are expected to face further intensified competition by certain generic manufacturers, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products. also, generic manufacturers have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of product candidates that such companies claim do not infringe our patents or that our patents are not valid; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, eliquis, ibrance and xeljanz. our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering products for which we have licenses or co-promotion rights. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors' branded products that lose their market exclusivity. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 22 table of contents competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products, including new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates. the introduction of competitive products can result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and potential sales of products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development. some of these have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. we also produce generic and biosimilar pharmaceutical products that compete with products from competitors, including other generic and biosimilar manufacturers. the ability to launch a generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical product at or before the anticipated formation of the generic or biosimilar marketplace is important to that product's profitability. with increasing competition in the generic or biosimilar product markets, our success will depend on our ability to bring new products to market quickly. the fda, along with other regulatory agencies around the world, has been experiencing a backlog of generic drug applications, which may result in delayed approvals of new generic products over the next few years. also, we may face access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive appropriate coverage/reimbursement access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to the innovator product. for example, inflectra has experienced access challenges among commercial payers. in september 2017, pfizer filed suit in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania against johnson &amp; johnson (j&amp;j) alleging that j&amp;j's exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning remicade (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of eight biopharmaceutical products in 2019: prevnar 13/prevenar 13, ibrance, eliquis, lyrica, xeljanz, lipitor, enbrel and chantix/champix. those products accounted for 49% of our total revenues in 2019 . if these products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling, pricing and access pressures, supply shortages or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. a number of our products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. for example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc. launched a generic version of viagra (a product in our upjohn business) in the u.s. in december 2017. in addition, lyrica (a product in our upjohn business) lost patent protection in the u.s. in june 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in july 2019. also, the basic product patent for chantix in the u.s. will expire in november 2020. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. for additional information, see the item 1. business patents and other intellectual property rights section in this 2019 form 10-k. further, our alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal r&amp;d or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. the average costs of product development continue to rise, as do the regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates funded as well as the sustainability of the r&amp;d portfolio. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in r&amp;d for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. additionally, our r&amp;d investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. further, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the scientific approach may not succeed for any given program despite the significant investment required for r&amp;d, and the commercial potential of the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement. we continue to strengthen our global r&amp;d organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in r&amp;d to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near-term and over time. these strategies may not deliver the desired result, which could affect growth and profitability in the future. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 23 table of contents biosimilars abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in many international markets and, since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biologic products, our biologic products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. for example, enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most european markets. the loss of patent rights, due to patent expiration or litigation, could trigger competition. we are developing and commercializing biosimilar medicines. risks related to our commercialization of biosimilars include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization of our potential biosimilar products. there is also a risk of lower uptake for biosimilars due to various factors that may vary for different biosimilars (e.g., anti-competitive practices, physician reluctance to prescribe biosimilars for existing patients taking the originator product, or misaligned financial incentives). see also the competitive products risk factor above. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if it receives regulatory approval. for example, a wider range of studies can lead to approval for a broader set of indications that may impact the marketing and payer reimbursement process. however, each additional indication and its reimbursement potential must be balanced against the time and resources required to demonstrate benefit, the increased complexity of development and manufacturing and the potential delays to approval of the lead indication. we try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no guarantee that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved each time. the degree to which such potential challenges are foreseen and adequately addressed could affect our future results. international operations our international operations could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, economic conditions, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of developed markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry's global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. however, our strategies in emerging markets may not be successful and these countries may not continue to sustain these growth rates. for example, even though china is growing faster than most emerging markets, we face certain challenges in china due to government imposed pricing controls affecting certain pfizer medicines. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. even though we constantly monitor the evolving emerging markets for any unanticipated risk to pfizer, certain financial or political events in such markets can adversely affect our results. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that typically have smaller patient populations. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, has generated payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. the impact of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals is increasing. a number of factors create a more challenging paradigm for pfizer given our growing specialty business portfolio such as formulary restrictions and increasing use of utilization management tools such as step edits, which can lead to higher negotiated rebates or discounts to health plans and pbms in the u.s., as well as the increasing use of health technology assessments and government pressures in markets around the world. product manufacturing, sales and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing, sales or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, work stoppages or strikes, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions, shortages or stock-outs, reputational harm, product liability or unanticipated costs. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of component materials is delayed or unavailable and that the quality of such materials are substandard and not detected; the possibility that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout our internal and external supply network and/or comply with cgmps and other applicable regulations such as serialization (which allows for track and trace of products in the supply chain to enhance patient safety); pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 24 table of contents risks to supply chain continuity and commercial operations as a result of natural (including hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or man-made disasters (including arson or terrorist attacks) at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor, including those that may be related to climate change; failure to maintain the integrity of our supply chains against economic adulteration, product diversion, product theft, counterfeit goods and cyberattacks. as an example, we have been experiencing production issues with genotropin that will decrease revenue from that product. regulatory agencies periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to evaluate compliance with cgmp or other applicable requirements. failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment, recall of a product, delays or denials of product approvals, import bans or denials of import certifications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in february 2017, for example, we received a warning letter from the fda communicating the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp regulations exist at hospira's manufacturing facility in mcpherson, kansas. we undertook corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the fda. in january 2018, the fda upgraded the status of pfizer's mcpherson manufacturing facility to vai based on an october 2017 inspection. the change to vai status lifted the compliance hold that the fda placed on approval of pending applications. in june 2018, the fda informed us that it had completed an evaluation of corrective actions and closed out the february 2017 warning letter issued to our mcpherson manufacturing facility after determining that we had addressed the violations contained in the warning letter. in july-august 2018, the fda conducted a follow-up inspection of our mcpherson facility and issued an inspection report noting several findings. pfizer responded to the fda's findings, and is in the process of implementing a corrective and preventive action plan to address the fda's concerns. on the basis of the july-august 2018 fda inspection, the fda changed the inspection classification of the mcpherson site to official action indicated (oai). future fda inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of these corrections implemented at the site. communication with the fda on the status of the mcpherson site is ongoing. as a result of the current oai classification, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our mcpherson site until the site status is upgraded, which upgrade would be based on a re-inspection by the fda. we have been experiencing shortages of products from the legacy hospira portfolio, among others, largely driven by capacity constraints, technical issues, supplier quality concerns or unanticipated increases in demand. we have made considerable progress in remediating issues at legacy hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables and have substantially improved supply from most of these sites. continuing product shortage interruption at these manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. in addition, in september 2017, meridian medical technologies, inc., a subsidiary of pfizer inc., received a warning letter from the fda asserting the fda's view that certain violations of cgmp and quality system regulations exist at meridian's manufacturing sites in st. louis, missouri and classifying the site as oai. meridian responded to the warning letter and committed to making improvements across the sites. we have made considerable progress addressing the concerns raised by the fda, and communication with the fda is ongoing. future fda inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of these corrections implemented at the site. as a result of the oai classification, the fda may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the fda may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our st. louis sites. collaborations and other relationships with third parties we depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the research, development, manufacturing and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into joint ventures and other business development transactions in connection with our business. to achieve expected longer term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments in such transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings. we rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development, manufacturing and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. we also outsource certain services to other parties, including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial recruitment and execution, clinical lab services, non-clinical research, safety services, integrated facilities management and other areas. failure by one or more of these third parties to complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations; failure by one or more of these parties to meet their contractual or other obligations to pfizer; failure of one or more of these parties to comply with applicable laws or regulations; or any disruption in the relationships between pfizer and one or more of these third parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval, manufacturing or commercialization of our products and product candidates, could expose us to suboptimal quality of service delivery or deliverables, could result in repercussions such as missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, erroneous data and supply disruptions, and could also result in non-compliance with legal or regulatory requirements or industry standards or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. biopharmaceutical wholesalers in 2019 , our largest biopharmaceutical wholesaler accounted for approximately 16% of our total revenues (and approximately 32% of our total u.s. revenues), and our top three biopharmaceutical wholesalers accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenues (and approximately 79% of our total u.s. revenues). if one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, such wholesaler might decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we might be unable to collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 25 table of contents our results of operations. in addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, divestments, mergers and acquisitions. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities, competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated timeframes or at all, and successfully integrate acquisitions. pursuing these opportunities may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, and could result in increased leverage and/or a downgrade of our credit ratings. where we acquire debt or equity securities as all or part of the consideration for business development activities, such as in connection with our contribution agreement entered into with allogene therapeutics, inc., the value of those securities will fluctuate, and may depreciate in value. we may not control the company in which we acquire securities, such as in connection with a divestiture or collaborative arrangement, and as a result, we will have limited ability to determine its management, operational decisions and policies. further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such due diligence efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. legal proceedings or regulatory issues often arise as a result of activities that occurred at acquired companies, their partners and other third parties. in 2016, for example, we paid $784.6 million to resolve allegations related to wyeth's reporting of prices to the government with respect to protonix for activities that occurred prior to our acquisition of wyeth. for these and other reasons, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, and expected synergies and accretion may not be realized within the expected timeframes, or at all. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. the prevalence of counterfeit medicines is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit medicines can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual patients; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit medicines; the growing involvement in the medicine supply chain of under-regulated wholesalers and repackagers; the lack of adequate inspection at certain international postal facilities as counterfeit medicines are increasingly delivered direct to customers in small parcel packages; the tendency to misuse and abuse medicines; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters compared to the large profits that can be earned by them from the sale of counterfeit medicines. further, laws against pharmaceutical counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing law varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, in some countries, pharmaceutical counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. in addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit medicines use complex transport routes in order to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. pfizer's global reputation makes its medicines prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. counterfeit medicines continue to pose a significant risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeiters have been recently evolving to counterfeit life sustaining medications such as oncology medicines. this shift significantly increases the risk to patients who, for instance, unsuspectingly purchase counterfeit oncology medications from illicit online pharmacies operated by criminal counterfeiting organizations. failure to mitigate this new threat posed by counterfeit biopharma medicines could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. we have an enterprise-wide strategy to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit medicines, and focused on educating patients and health care providers to reduce demand through awareness; increasing engagement and education of global law enforcement, customs and regulatory agencies about the growing prevalence of counterfeit life sustaining medicines; enhancing online identification and disruption efforts in partnership with pharmaceutical associations to optimize resources and impact; educating legislators about the risk to the security of the international drug supply chain by illicit manufacturing and distribution networks operated by transnational criminal organizations; supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products and easier for patients and healthcare providers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit medicines; and using data analytics and risk assessment tools to better target the factors that give rise to the counterfeiting problem in the first place. however, our efforts and the efforts of others may not be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 26 table of contents risks related to government regulation and legal proceedings : pricing and reimbursement u.s. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls and limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to enhanced government and public scrutiny and calls for reform. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, pharmaceutical price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. there have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. see the discussion regarding pricing and reimbursement in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states pricing and reimbursement section in this 2019 form 10-k. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in certain international markets, such as the different eu member states, the u.k., china, japan, canada and south korea, governments have significant power as large single payers to regulate prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control, particularly under recent global financing pressures. as a result, we expect that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. for example, china, in 2013, began to implement a qce process, under which numerous local generics have officially been deemed bioequivalents of a qualified reference drug. china's government subsequently initiated a pilot project for centralized vbp in 2018, which included 25 molecules of drugs and covered 11 major chinese cities. under this procurement model, a tender process was established whereby a certain portion of included molecule volumes were guaranteed to tender winners. this tender process was intended to contain healthcare costs by driving utilization of generics and bioequivalents that had passed qce, and has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent medicines. china's government began nationwide expansion of the vbp pilot in december 2019. see the discussion regarding these government initiatives in china in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints outside the united states china pricing pressures section in this 2019 form 10-k. we anticipate that these initiatives will continue to increase pricing pressures on our drug products in china in the future. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions or the failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. u.s. healthcare reform the u.s. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. for example, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and established a major expansion of healthcare coverage, financed in part by a number of new rebates, discounts, and taxes that had a significant effect on our expenses and profitability. see the discussion in the item 1. business government regulation and price constraints in the united states section in this 2019 form 10-k. we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. there is additional uncertainty given the ruling in december 2019 by the u.s. circuit court of appeals for the fifth circuit in texas v. azar that the individual mandate, which is a significant provision of the aca, is unconstitutional. the case has been remanded to a lower court to determine whether the individual mandate is inseparable from the entire aca, in which case the aca as a whole would be rendered unconstitutional. in the meantime, the remaining provisions of the law remain in effect. the revenues generated for pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and medicaid expansion under the aca are not material, so the impact of full invalidation of the law is expected to be limited. however, any future replacement of the aca may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage or dramatically increases industry taxes and fees. any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results. other u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, general budget control actions, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries (which is among the u.s. presidential administration's policy proposals), revisions to reimbursement of biopharmaceuticals under government programs (such as the implementation of international reference pricing for medicare part b drugs, or changes to protected class criteria for part d drugs), restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 27 table of contents u.s. entitlement reform in the u.s., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including medicare and medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. the congressional budget office routinely releases options for reducing federal spending, and the december 2018 release includes proposals to cap federal medicaid payments to the states, and to require manufacturers to pay a minimum rebate on drugs covered under medicare part d for low-income beneficiaries. significant medicare reductions could also result if, for example, congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the medicare payment advisory commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the medicare program. these and any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. substantial regulation we are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal and state governmental authorities in the u.s., principally by the fda and the dea, and foreign regulatory authorities. failure to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, monetary penalties and other disciplinary actions, including, sanctions, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspension, revocation of approvals, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements or exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, as well as reputational harm. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development are time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk and cost. the process from early discovery to design and adequate implementation of clinical trials to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, or unfavorable new clinical data and further analyses of existing clinical data, including results that may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication. we may not be able to meet anticipated pre-clinical or clinical endpoints, commencement and/or completion dates for our pre-clinical or clinical trials, regulatory submission dates, regulatory approval dates and/or launch dates. similarly, we may not be able to successfully address all of the comments received from regulatory authorities such as the fda and the ema, or obtain approval from regulators. regulatory approval of drug or biologic products depends on myriad factors, including a regulator making a determination as to whether a product's benefits outweigh its known risks and a determination of the product's efficacy. additionally, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations and assessments by regulatory authorities. even after a drug or biologic is approved, it could be adversely affected by regulatory decisions impacting labeling, manufacturing processes, safety and/or other matters. we may not be able to receive or maintain favorable recommendations by technical or advisory committees, such as the advisory committee on immunization practices that may impact the use of our vaccines. further, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional or more extensive clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements. for these and other reasons discussed in item 1a. risk factors , we may not obtain the approvals we expect within the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase 4 trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of a product. regulatory agencies in countries outside the u.s. often have similar authority and may impose comparable requirements. for example, in july and december 2019, the fda updated the u.s. prescribing information for xeljanz to include three additional boxed warnings as well as changes to the indication and dosing for ulcerative colitis. in january 2020, the ema revised the summary of product characteristics (smpc) for xeljanz to include new warnings and recommendations for use of xeljanz due to an increased risk of venous thromboembolism and, due to an increased risk of infections, revised warnings in patients older than 65 years of age. these updates were based on the fda's and ema's review of data from the ongoing post-marketing requirement rheumatoid arthritis study a3921133. postmarketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products could implicate the entire class of products; and this, in turn, could have an adverse effect on the availability or commercial viability of our product(s) as well as other products in the class. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 28 table of contents interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials risks and uncertainties apply if we provide, offer, or promise something of value to a healthcare professional, other healthcare provider and/or government official. requirements or industry standards in the u.s. and certain jurisdictions abroad that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to track and disclose financial interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare providers increase government and public scrutiny of such financial interactions. if an interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. these risks may increase as both u.s. and foreign enforcement agencies adopt or increase enforcement efforts in respect of existing and new laws and regulations governing product promotion, marketing, anti-bribery and kickbacks, industry regulations, and codes of conduct. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws, changes to existing tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory clarifications and/or interpretations, including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of or changes to the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. for additional information, see the provision/(benefit) for taxes on income changes in tax laws and new accounting standards sections, and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 b. basis of presentation and significant accounting policies : adoption of new accounting standards in 2019 in our 2019 financial report. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where one or more third parties seeks damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of its patents by our commercial or other activities, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment, tax litigation and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe that our claims and defenses in matters in which we are a defendant are substantial, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all of our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations. like other pharmaceutical companies, we are subject to extensive regulation by government agencies in the u.s., other developed markets and multiple emerging markets in which we operate. criminal charges, substantial fines and/or civil penalties, limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements, as well as reputational harm and increased public interest in the matter could result from government investigations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which we do business. in addition, in a qui tam lawsuit in which the government declines to intervene, the relator may still pursue a suit for the recovery of civil damages and penalties on behalf of the government. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the ffdca, the medicaid drug rebate program, the fcpa and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this 2019 form 10-k, as well as anti-kickback and false claims laws, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. this risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. in connection with the resolution of a u.s. government investigation concerning independent copay assistance organizations that provide financial assistance to medicare patients, in may 2018, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (cia) with the office of the inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services, which is effective for a period of five pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 29 table of contents years. in the cia, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program requirements. breaches of the cia could result in severe sanctions against us. for additional information, including information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved in, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings in our 2019 financial report. environmental claims and proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to environmental claims and proceedings. amounts recorded for legal and environmental contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. while we have accrued for worldwide environmental liabilities, there is no guarantee that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. if we fail to properly manage the safety of our facilities and the environmental risks associated therewith or if we are required to increase our accruals for contingencies for environmental claims and proceedings in the future, it could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations. risks related to intellectual property : patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including, among others, claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may seek to engage in policies or practices that may weaken its intellectual property framework (e.g., laws or regulations that promote or provide broad discretion to issue a compulsory license). in countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches that challenge our patent rights. most of the suits involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that patents covering our products, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer. independent actions have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. such claims may also be brought as counterclaims to actions we bring to enforce our patents. we are also party to other patent damages suits in various jurisdictions pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry. we also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the u.s. patent and trademark office, the european patent office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid in such proceedings, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. for example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the u.s. in october 2017, the patent trial and appeal board (ptab) refused to initiate proceedings as to two patents. in june 2018, the ptab ruled on another patent, holding that one claim was valid and that all other claims were invalid. the party challenging that patent has appealed the decision. in november 2019, the federal circuit vacated the ptab's ruling and requested that the ptab redecide the challenge. in march and june 2019, an additional patent was found invalid in separate proceedings by the ptab. we have appealed. challenges to other patents remain pending in jurisdictions outside the u.s. the invalidation of all of these patents in our pneumococcal portfolio could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 30 table of contents and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies in some countries may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. third party intellectual property claims a properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. we are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not always be successful. part of our business depends upon successfully identifying generic pharmaceutical product and biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. these opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired, where patents have been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others, and in some circumstances we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable in order to achieve a first-to-market or early market position for our products. third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party. claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant damages. we are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market generic pharmaceutical products and biosimilars. once we have final regulatory approval of the related generic pharmaceuticals products or biosimilars, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., at-risk launch). if one of our marketed products is found to infringe valid patent rights of a third party, such third party may be awarded significant damages, or we may be prevented from further sales of that product. such damages may be enhanced as much as three-fold in the event that we or one of our subsidiaries, like hospira, is found to have willfully infringed valid patent rights of a third party. any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. risk related to technology : information technology and security significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our businesses. we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our businesses. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, hacktivists, nation states and others. as a global pharmaceutical company, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. while we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, our efforts may not prevent service interruptions or security breaches. any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. we maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 31 table of contents risks related to our strategic transactions : strategic acquisitions the success of any of our strategic acquisitions will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from combining these businesses with pfizer. we, for example, may fail to achieve cost savings anticipated with certain of these acquisitions, or such cost savings within the expected time frame. similarly, the accretive impact anticipated from certain of these acquisitions may not be realized or may be delayed. integration of these businesses may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. we also may fail to generate the revenue growth for the acquired business that we expected at the time of entering into the transaction. expected revenue from acquired products and product candidates also may be constrained by developments outside of our control. unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory hurdles and commercialization challenges may adversely impact revenue and income contribution from products and product candidates, including those acquired in these acquisitions. hospira, for example, has experienced manufacturing disruptions and substantial regulatory scrutiny due to quality issues. manufacturing problems, as well as any corrective actions and their operational implementation, could adversely impact the revenue we generate from products acquired from hospira and result in substantial unanticipated costs. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section in our 2019 financial report. pending combination of upjohn with mylan pfizer, mylan and upjohn may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the combination of upjohn with mylan (the combination), and regulatory agencies may delay or impose conditions on approval of the combination, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the combination. the consummation of the combination is subject to numerous conditions, including the receipt by pfizer of an internal revenue service ruling and an opinion of its tax counsel to the effect that, among other things, certain transactions related to the combination and certain related transactions will constitute a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, the approval of the combination by mylan shareholders, and other customary conditions, certain of which are dependent upon the actions of third parties. as a result of such conditions, pfizer cannot make any assurances that the combination will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. completion of the combination is also conditioned upon the receipt of certain required government consents and approvals, including certain approvals required from regulatory agencies. while pfizer, mylan and upjohn intend to pursue vigorously all required governmental approvals, the requirement to receive these approvals prior to the consummation of the combination could delay the completion of the combination, possibly for a significant period of time. any delay in the completion of the combination could diminish the anticipated benefits of the combination or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the combination, including delaying pfizer's ability to capitalize on its strategy of becoming a more focused, innovative company as well as upjohn's ability to optimize the execution of its growth strategies. pfizer may be subject to shareholder lawsuit, or other actions filed in connection with or in opposition to the combination or any related transactions. such litigation could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of pfizer and could prevent or delay the consummation of the combination. pfizer has expended and will continue to expend significant management time and resources and has incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses due to legal, advisory, printing and financial services fees related to the combination, including costs required to obtain the required government consents or defend or settle actions noted above. we expect to incur costs of approximately $500 million in connection with fully separating upjohn, inclusive of $145 million incurred in 2019. such charges will include costs and expenses related to separation of legal entities and anticipated transaction costs. many of these expenses must be paid regardless of whether the combination is consummated, and even if the expected benefits of the combination are not achieved. additionally, the completion of the combination, including for example, obtaining regulatory approvals, will require significant time and attention from pfizer management and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of our business. even if the combination is completed as anticipated, pfizer may not realize some or all of the expected benefits. furthermore, upjohn may experience operational challenges in integrating the upjohn and mylan businesses, which may also diminish the anticipated benefits of the combination. even if the combination is completed, the anticipated operational, financial, strategic and other benefits of the combination may not be achieved. there are many factors that could impact the anticipated benefits from the combination, including, among others, strategic adjustments required to reflect the nature of our business following the combination, any negative reaction to the combination by our customers and business partners, and increased risks resulting from pfizer becoming a company that is more focused on innovative medicines. in addition, pfizer has agreed to provide certain transition services to the combined company, generally for an initial period of 24 months following the completion of the combination (with certain possibilities for extension). these obligations under the transition agreements may result in additional expenses and may divert pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 32 table of contents pfizer's focus and resources that would otherwise be invested into maintaining or growing pfizer's business. an inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the combination, as well as any delays encountered in the process, could have an adverse effect on the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of our business. furthermore, the combination is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. even if upjohn and mylan successfully integrate, pfizer, upjohn and mylan cannot predict with certainty if or when the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and benefits resulting from the combination will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved. for example, the benefits from the combination may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies or by required capital expenditures related to the combined businesses. in addition, the quantification of synergies expected to result from the combination is based on significant estimates and assumptions that are subjective in nature and inherently uncertain. realization of any benefits and synergies could be affected by a number of factors beyond pfizer's, mylan's, upjohn's or the combined company's control, including, without limitation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs, regulatory developments and the other risks described in these risk factors. the amount of synergies actually realized in the combination, if any, and the time periods in which any such synergies are realized, could differ materially from the synergies anticipated to be realized, regardless of whether the two business operations are combined successfully. if the integration is unsuccessful or if the combined company is unable to realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the combination, there could be a material adverse effect on the combined company's share price, business, financial condition and results of operations. consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk on july 31, 2019, we completed the transaction in which we and gsk combined our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture that operates globally under the gsk consumer healthcare name. following the integration of the combined business, gsk intends to separate the joint venture as an independent company via a demerger of its equity interest to its shareholders and a listing of the combined business on the u.k. equity market. in february 2020, gsk announced the initiation of a two-year program to prepare for the separation of gsk into two companies, including a standalone consumer healthcare company. until the fifth anniversary of the closing of the transaction, gsk will have the sole right to decide whether and when to initiate a separation and listing, and may also sell all or part of its stake in the joint venture in a contemporaneous initial public offering. should a separation and listing occur during the first five years after closing, pfizer has the option to participate through the distribution of some or all of its equity interest in the joint venture to its shareholders. following a separation or listing, and subject to customary lock-up or similar restrictions, pfizer will also have the ability to sell its equity interest in the joint venture through the capital markets. after the fifth anniversary of the closing of the transaction, both gsk and pfizer will have the right to decide whether and when to initiate a separation and public listing of the joint venture. the planned separation and public listing transactions may not be initiated or completed within the expected time periods or at all, and both the timing and success of any separation and public listing transaction, as well as the value generated for pfizer or its shareholders in any such transaction, will be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. although pfizer is entitled to participate in any separation and listing transaction initiated by gsk prior to the fifth anniversary of the closing, it is not required to do so, and any future distribution or sale of pfizer's equity stake in the joint venture will similarly be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. pfizer's ability to complete any such future distribution or sale may also be impacted by the size of pfizer's retained equity stake at the time. the uncertainty relating to the separation and public listing transactions, their implementation, their timing and their yet to be determined effects on the joint venture's business may subject us and the joint venture to risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business and financial results. moreover, although we have certain consent, board representation and other governance rights with respect to the joint venture, pfizer is a minority owner of the joint venture. as a result, pfizer does not have control over the joint venture, its management or its policies and we may have business interests, strategies and goals that differ in certain respects from those of gsk or the joint venture. in addition, the joint venture will be subject to the risks associated with the joint venture's consumer healthcare business, and the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture may be affected by factors that are different from or in addition to those that previously affected the business, financial condition and results of operations of pfizer's historical consumer healthcare business. many of these factors are outside of our and the joint venture's control, and could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the joint venture. the success of the transaction will also depend, in part, on the joint venture's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost synergies from the transaction. these anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized or may not be realized within the expected time period. the joint venture's integration of pfizer's and gsk's historic consumer healthcare businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, costs, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. any material unanticipated issues arising from the integration process could negatively impact our stock price and our or the joint venture's future business and financial results . pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 33 table of contents other risks: the global economic environment like all businesses of our size, we are exposed to both global and industry-specific economic conditions. governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. as discussed above, government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. the global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. we monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions, but there can be no guarantee that changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources or impact our ability to obtain financing in the future. we continue to monitor credit, capital restrictions and economic situations in volatile regions and markets, especially where the ability to obtain u.s. dollars for local currency is unpredictable and challenging. we cannot predict the likelihood of future changes in these economic conditions, or what impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business. in addition, given that a significant portion of our business is conducted in the eu, including the u.k., the formal change in the relationship between the u.k. and the eu caused by brexit may pose certain implications for our research, commercial and general business operations in the u.k. and the eu, including the approval and supply of our products. details on how brexit will be finally executed and the impact on the remaining eu countries will dictate how and whether the broader eu will be impacted and what the resulting impact on our business may be. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment section in our 2019 financial report. public health epidemics or outbreaks could adversely impact our business. in december 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (covid-19) emerged in wuhan, hubei province, china . while initially the outbreak was largely concentrated in china and caused significant disruptions to its economy, it has now spread to several other countries and infections have been reported globally. the extent to which the coronavirus impacts our operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the duration of the outbreak, new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. in particular, the continued spread of the coronavirus globally could adversely impact our operations, including among others, our manufacturing and supply chain, sales and marketing and clinical trial operations and could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial results. we also continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts and impediments. if trade restrictions or tariffs reduce global economic activity, or if other factors lead to a general economic downturn, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 54% of our total 2019 revenues were derived from international operations, including 21% from europe and 24% from china, japan and the rest of asia. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the chinese renminbi, the japanese yen, the canadian dollar, the u.k. pound and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. conversely, if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including venezuela and argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance . for additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk section in this 2019 form 10-k and the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 34 table of contents outlook our financial guidance for 2020 and analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources sections in our 2019 financial report. in addition, our interest-bearing investments and borrowings, and our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net, are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks related to interest-bearing investments and borrowings and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial risk management section in this 2019 form 10-k. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7 f . financial instruments : derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and note 11 . pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2019 financial report, which are incorporated by reference. from time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on libor, or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on libor. the u.k. financial conduct authority announced in july 2017 that it will no longer compel banks to submit rates that are currently used to calculate libor after 2021. various governing parties, including government agencies, are working on a benchmark transition plan for libor (and other interbank offered rates globally) . we are monitoring their progress, and we will likely amend contracts to accommodate any replacement rate where it is not already provided. as a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. for additional information, see the analysis of financial condition, liquidity and capital resources selected measures of liquidity and capital resources libor section in our 2019 financial report. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in external fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. market fluctuations in our equity investments in 2018, we adopted a new accounting standard whereby certain equity investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value now recognized in net income. we expect the adoption of this new accounting standard may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of certain equity investments. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 4. other (income)/deductions net in our 2019 financial report and the item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial risk management section in this 2019 form 10-k. our pension benefit obligations and postretirement benefit obligations, net of our plan assets, are subject to volatility from changes in fair value of equity investments and other investment risk. for additional information, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions benefit plans section and the notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. pension and postretirement benefit plans and defined contribution plans in our 2019 financial report. cost and expense control/unusual events/failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of (i) our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; (ii) the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019; (iii) any other corporate strategic initiatives; and (iv) any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, such as our agreement to combine upjohn with mylan, creating a new global pharmaceutical company, which is anticipated to close in mid-2020, our acquisition of array and the formation of the new consumer healthcare joint venture with gsk. intangible assets, goodwill and equity-method investments our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. if the associated r&amp;d effort is abandoned, the related ipr&amp;d assets will likely be written-off, and we will record an impairment charge. for goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity). any such charge may be significant. our other intangible pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 35 table of contents assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment and charges related to such assets may be significant as well. for additional details, see the significant accounting policies and application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions section in our 2019 financial report. we also regularly review our equity-method investments for impairment. an impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. we may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 36 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments not applicable. item 2. properties as of december 31, 2019 , we had 453 owned and leased properties, amounting to approximately 47 million square feet. in 2019, we reduced the number of properties in our portfolio by 45 sites and 6 million square feet, which reflects the divestment of properties in connection with the formation of the gsk consumer healthcare joint venture and the addition of properties in connection with the acquisition of array. pfizer continues to own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing, customer service, regulatory compliance, r&amp;d, manufacturing and distribution, and administrative support functions. in many locations, business lines and operations are co-located to achieve synergy and operational efficiencies. pfizer's corporate headquarters are in new york city and pfizer's properties extend internationally to approximately 90 countries. in april 2018, we entered an agreement to lease space at the spiral, an office building in the hudson yards neighborhood of new york city. we will relocate our global headquarters to this property with occupancy expected beginning in 2022. in july 2018, we completed the sale of our current headquarters in new york city. we remain in a lease-back arrangement with the buyer while we complete our relocation. we continue to advance our global workplace strategy to provide workplaces that enable collaboration and foster innovation. we have numerous facilities across the world to support our r&amp;d organizations, with a heavy concentration in north america. in 2019, we operationalized the new r&amp;d facilities in st. louis, missouri and andover, massachusetts. we also purchased an r&amp;d property in durham, north carolina in 2019 and expect to renovate and fit out the space over the next several years. our pgs division is headquartered in various locations, with leadership teams primarily in new york city, new york and in peapack, new jersey. as of december 31, 2019 , pgs had responsibility for 42 plants around the world, which manufacture products for our commercial divisions. locations with major manufacturing facilities include belgium, china, germany, india, ireland, italy, japan, singapore and the u.s. our pgs division's plant network strategy is expected to result in the exit of two of these sites over the next several years. pgs also operates multiple distribution facilities around the world. in 2019, seven manufacturing plants transferred from pgs's responsibility to upjohn's responsibility, and an additional two plants are expected to be fully migrated from pgs's responsibility to upjohn's responsibility over the next several years. in general, we believe that our properties are well-maintained, adequate and suitable for their current requirements and for our operations in the foreseeable future. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 9 . property, plant and equipment in our 2019 financial report, which provides amounts invested in land, buildings and equipment and which is incorporated by reference. item 3. legal proceedings certain legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 16 a . contingencies and certain commitments legal proceedings in our 2019 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 37 table of contents information about our executive officers the executive officers of the company are set forth in this table. each holds the office or offices indicated until his or her successor is chosen and qualified at the regular meeting of the board of directors to be held on the date of the 2020 annual meeting of shareholders, or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. each of the executive officers is a member of the pfizer executive leadership team. name age position albert bourla 58 chairman of the board since january 2020 and chief executive officer since january 2019. chief operating officer from january 2018 until december 2018; group president, pfizer innovative health from june 2016 until december 2017; group president, global innovative pharma business (responsible for vaccines, oncology and consumer healthcare since 2014) from february 2016 until june 2016. president and general manager of established products business unit from december 2010 until december 2013. our director since february 2018. board member of pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of america (phrma). board member of the pfizer foundation, which promotes access to quality healthcare. member of the board of directors of the partnership for new york city and catalyst, a global non-profit organization accelerating progress for the advancement of women into leadership. frank a. d'amelio 62 chief financial officer, executive vice president, business operations and global supply since november 2018. executive vice president, business operations and chief financial officer from december 2010 until october 2018. senior vice president and chief financial officer from september 2007 until december 2010. director of zoetis inc. and humana inc. and chair of the humana inc. board of directors' audit committee. director of the independent college fund of new jersey. mikael dolsten 61 chief scientific officer, president, worldwide research, development and medical since january 2019. president of worldwide research and development from december 2010 until december 2018. senior vice president; president of worldwide research and development from may 2010 until december 2010. senior vice president; president of pfizer biotherapeutics research &amp; development group from october 2009 until may 2010. he was senior vice president of wyeth and president, wyeth research from june 2008 until october 2009. director of karyopharm therapeutics inc. chairman of the translational advisory board of apple tree partners from 2016 to 2017. lidia fonseca 51 chief digital and technology officer, executive vice president since january 2019. chief information officer and senior vice president of quest diagnostics incorporated from 2014 to 2018. senior vice president of laboratory corporation of america holdings from 2008 until march 2013. director of tegna, inc. angela hwang 54 group president, pfizer biopharmaceuticals group since january 2019. group president, pfizer essential health from january 2018 until december 2018. global president, pfizer inflammation and immunology from january 2016 until december 2017. regional head, u.s. vaccines from january 2014 until december 2015. vice president, emerging markets for the primary care business from september 2011 until december 2013. vice president, u.s. brands business within essential health from october 2009 until august 2011. rady a. johnson 58 chief compliance, quality and risk officer, executive vice president since january 2019. executive vice president, chief compliance and risk officer from december 2013 until december 2018. senior vice president and associate general counsel from october 2006 until december 2013. douglas m. lankler 54 general counsel, executive vice president since december 2013. corporate secretary from january 2014 until february 2014. executive vice president, chief compliance and risk officer from february 2011 until december 2013. executive vice president, chief compliance officer from december 2010 until february 2011. senior vice president and chief compliance officer from january 2010 until december 2010. senior vice president, deputy general counsel and chief compliance officer from august 2009 until january 2010. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 38 table of contents name age position a. rod mackenzie 60 chief development officer, executive vice president since june 2016. senior vice president, chief development officer from march 2016 until june 2016. group senior vice president and head, pharma therapeutics research and development from 2010 until march 2016. dr. mackenzie represents pfizer as a member of the board of directors of viiv healthcare limited, transcelerate biopharma inc. and the national health council. dawn rogers 55 chief human resources officer, executive vice president since january 2019. executive vice president, worldwide human resources from june 2018 until december 2018. senior vice president, human resources for the chief operating officer from november 2017 until may 2018. senior vice president of human resources for pfizer essential health, global product development, and the legal and compliance divisions from 2016 until november 2017. senior vice president of human resources for the global innovative pharma business from 2013 until 2016. senior vice president of human resources for the primary care business unit from 2011 until 2013. senior vice president of human resources for worldwide research and development from 2008 until 2011. sally susman 58 chief corporate affairs officer, executive vice president since january 2019. executive vice president, corporate affairs (formerly policy, external affairs and communications) from december 2010 until december 2018. senior vice president, policy, external affairs and communications from december 2009 until december 2010. director of wpp plc. john d. young 55 chief business officer, group president since january 2019. group president, pfizer innovative health from january 2018 until december 2018. group president, pfizer essential health from june 2016 until december 2017; group president, global established pharma business from january 2014 until june 2016. president and general manager, pfizer primary care from june 2012 until december 2013. primary care business unit's regional president for europe and canada from 2009 until june 2012. director of johnson controls international plc. mr. young represents pfizer as a member of the board of directors of the gsk consumer healthcare joint venture. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 39 table of contents part ii item 5. market for the company's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the principal market for our common stock is the nyse. our common stock currently trades on the nyse under the symbol pfe . as of february 25, 2020 , there were 142,524 holders of record of our common stock. additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the selected quarterly financial data (unaudited) and peer group performance graph sections in our 2019 financial report. the following table provides certain information with respect to our purchases of shares of the company's common stock during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2019 : issuer purchases of equity securities (a) period total number of shares purchased (b) average price paid per share (b) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plan approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plan (a) september 30, 2019 through october 27, 2019 32,848 $ 36.06 $ 5,292,881,709 october 28, 2019 through november 30, 2019 13,399 $ 37.50 $ 5,292,881,709 december 1, 2019 through december 31, 2019 67,767 $ 38.86 $ 5,292,881,709 total 114,014 $ 37.89 (a) for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 12 . equity in our 2019 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. (b) these columns represent (i) 108,367 shares of common stock surrendered to the company to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of awards under our long-term incentive programs and (ii) the open market purchase by the trustee of 5,647 shares of common stock in connection with the reinvestment of dividends paid on common stock held in trust for employees who were granted performance share awards and who deferred receipt of such awards. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 40 table of contents item 6. selected financial data information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial summary in our 2019 financial report. item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial review in our 2019 financial report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial risk management the objective of our financial risk management program is to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and through the use of third-party instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk we operate globally and, as such, we are subject to foreign exchange risk in our commercial operations, as well as in our financial assets (investments) and liabilities (borrowings). our net investments in foreign subsidiaries are also subject to currency risk. on the commercial side, a significant portion of our revenues and earnings is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook the global economic environment section in our 2019 financial report for the key currencies in which we operate. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. where foreign exchange risk cannot be mitigated via operational means, we may use foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and/or foreign currency swaps to manage that risk. with respect to our financial assets and liabilities, our primary foreign exchange exposure arises predominantly from short-term and long-term intercompany receivables and payables, and, to a lesser extent, from short-term and long-term investments and debt, where the assets and/or liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the business entity. we also hedge some forecasted intercompany sales denominated in euro, japanese yen, chinese renminbi, u.k. pound, canadian dollar, and australian dollar to protect against longer-term movements. in addition, under certain market conditions, we may seek to protect against possible declines in the reported net investments of our foreign business entities. in these cases, we may use foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and/or foreign currency debt. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair valuation methodologies, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7a. financial instruments : fair value measurements in our 2019 financial report. the fair values of our financial instrument holdings are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, holding all other assumptions constant and assuming that a change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have any effect on another currency's rates relative to the u.s. dollar, if the dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, as of december 31, 2019 , the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant. interest rate risk we are subject to interest rate risk on our investments and on our borrowings. we manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on pfizer's immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. with respect to our investments, we strive to maintain a predominantly floating-rate basis position, but our strategy may change based on prevailing market conditions. our floating-rate assets are subject to the risk that short-term interest rates may fall and, as a result, the investments would generate less interest income. fixed-rate investments provide a known amount of interest income regardless of a change in interest rates. we sometimes use interest rate swaps in our financial investment portfolio. pfizer inc. 2019 form 10-k 41 table of contents we borrow primarily on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. from time to time, depending on market conditions, we will change the profile of our outstanding debt by entering into derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps. for details about these and other financial instruments, including fair valuation methodologies, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7a. financial instruments : fair value measurements in our 2019 financial report. the fair values of our financial instrument holdings are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to interest rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, holding all other assumptions constant and assuming a parallel shift in the interest rate curve for all maturities and for all instruments, if there were a one hundred basis point increase in interest rates as of december 31, 2019 , the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant. equity price risk we hold equity securities with readily determinable fair values in life science companies as a result of certain business development transactions. while we are holding such securities, we are subject to equity price risk, and this may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of equity investments. from time to time, we will sell such equity securities based on our business considerations, which may include limiting our price risk. our equity securities with readily determinable fair values are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to equity price rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant.risk factors and cautionary factors that may affect future results 15 risk factors and cautionary factors that may affect future results the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2005 form 10-k and in our 2005 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target , forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. government regulation and managed care trends u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. in the u.s., many of 15 our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures may increase as the result of the 2003 medicare act. in addition, mcos as well as medicaid and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. government efforts to reduce medicaid expenses may continue to increase the use of mcos. this may result in managed care influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices for our products. in addition, some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including the importation of prescription drugs that are marketed outside the u.s. and sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries the prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of ed medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the medicare program which is scheduled to take effect january 1, 2007, may adversely affect our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us in the u.s. and is growing internationally. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. the u.s. basic patent for zithromax expired in 2005, and the u.s. basic patent for zoloft will expire in 2006 and for each of norvasc and zyrtec will expire in 2007. also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including lipitor , norvasc , celebrex and detrol , are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. for example, lipitor will begin to face competition from generic pravastatin (pravachol) and generic simvastatin (zocor) during 2006. changes by the fda to its approach to follow-on biologics could subject genotropin to generic competition. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with our drugs, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. launches of a number of competitive products have occurred recently, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line and new products we recorded product sales of more than 1 billion for each of eight pharmaceutical products in 2005: lipitor, norvasc, zoloft, celebrex, zithromax/zmax, viagra, zyrtec , and xalatan / xalacom. those products accounted for 55% of our total 2005 revenues. lipitor sales in 16 2005 exceeded 12 billion, accounting for 24% of our total 2005 revenues. if these or any of our other major products were to become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from existing competitive products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines recently have expired or will expire this year or next year, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products, including lyrica, exubera, sutent and the product candidate champix . uncertainty relating to cox-2 medicines our goal is to make celebrex available to increased numbers of patients. however, our ability to increase celebrex sales may be limited significantly by the uncertainty concerning cox-2 medicines related to the regulatory actions involving those medicines that were taken last year. research and development investment the discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products is very important to the success of the company. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products risks and uncertainties particularly apply with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there also are many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. more detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. we try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. interest rate and foreign exchange risk 48% of our 2005 revenues were derived from international operations, including 18% from countries in the euro zone and 7% from japan. these international-based revenues as well as our substantial international assets expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled financial risk management in our 2005 financial report. for additional details, see note 9-d to our consolidated financial statements, financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities , in our 2005 17 financial report. those sections of our 2005 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand, or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results. cost and expense control/unusual events growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, the impact of the possible sale or spin-off of our consumer healthcare business and our ability to realize the projected benefits of our adapting to scale multi-year productivity initiative. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of future terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims; government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management in our 2005 financial report.risk factors and cautionary factors that may affect future results the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2006 form 10-k and in our 2006 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target , forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or business plans or prospects. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. government regulation and managed care trends u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. in the u.s., many of our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures may increase as the result of the 2003 medicare act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 medicare act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. in addition, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including the importation of prescription drugs that are marketed from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. the prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of ed medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the 14 medicare program, which became effective january 1, 2007, may adversely affect our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. the u.s. basic patent for zoloft expired in 2006 and will expire in 2007 for each of norvasc and zyrtec . generic versions of zoloft were launched in 2006 and we expect generic versions of norvasc and zyrtec to be launched in 2007. the u.s. basic patents on camptosar and inspra expire in 2008. also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including lipitor, norvasc, celebrex, detrol and caduet, are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. for example, lipitor began to face competition from generic pravastatin (pravachol) and generic simvastatin (zocor) during 2006. in 2006, the fda approved a new branded somatropin product that will compete with genotropin. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with our drugs, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. launches of a number of competitive products have occurred recently, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line and new products we recorded product sales of more than 1 billion for each of nine pharmaceutical products in 2006: lipitor, norvasc, zoloft, lyrica, celebrex, viagra, detrol/detrol la, xalatan/xalacom and zyrtec. those products accounted for 64% of our pharmaceutical revenues in 2006. lipitor sales in 2006 were approximately 12.9 billion, accounting for 28.6% of our total 2006 pharmaceutical revenues. if these or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from existing competitive products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines recently have expired or will expire this year or next year, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products, including lyrica, exubera, sutent, chantix/ champix and eraxis . 15 uncertainty relating to cox-2 medicines our ability to increase celebrex sales may be limited by the continuing concern about the safety of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain relievers. research and development investment the discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products is very important to the success of the company. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products risks and uncertainties particularly apply with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there also are many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. more detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. we try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. interest rate and foreign exchange risk 46.6% of our total 2006 revenues were derived from international operations, including 29.3% from the europe/canada region and 12.3% from the japan/asia region. these international-based revenues as well as our substantial international assets expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled financial risk management in our 2006 financial report. for additional details, see note 9-d to our consolidated financial statements, financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities foreign exchange risk, in our 2006 financial report. those sections of our 2006 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. 16 product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand, or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results. cost and expense control/unusual events growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of our adapting to scale multi-year productivity initiative, including the projected benefits of the broadening of this initiative over the next few years. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we plan to enhance our pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances (see regulatory environment and pipeline productivity under overview of our performance and operating environment in our 2006 financial report, which section is incorporated by reference). however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 21 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 21 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 21 item 9a. controls and procedures 21 item 9b. other information 22 part iii 22 item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant 22 item 11. executive compensation 22 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 22 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions and director independence 22 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 22 part iv 23 item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 23 15(a)(1) financial statements 23 15(a)(2) financial statement schedules 23 15(a)(3) exhibits 23 part i item 1. business general pfizer inc. (which may be referred to as pfizer, the company, we, us or our ) is a research-based, global pharmaceutical company. we discover, develop, manufacture and market leading prescription medicines for humans and animals. the company was incorporated under the laws of the state of delaware on june 2, 1942. we acquired pharmacia corporation (pharmacia) in april 2003. the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. in accordance with gaap, we did not restate our results of operations and financial position to reflect the historical results of operations and financial position of pharmacia. we acquired esperion therapeutics, inc. ( esperion ) in february 2004. the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. esperion is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of high density lipoprotein (hdl)-targeted ( good cholesterol ) therapies for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. in september 2005, we acquired vicuron pharmaceuticals, inc., a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of novel anti-infectives. the acquisition was also accounted for as a purchase. we acquired the worldwide rights to exubera (inhaled insulation therapy) from sanofi-aventis in february 2006. the company and sanofi-aventis were previously in a worldwide alliance to co-develop, co-promote and co-manufacture exubera . the company also acquired the sanofi-aventis rights to the exubera insulin production facilities located in frankfurt, germany, which were previously jointly owned by the company and sanofi-aventis. we completed the sale of our consumer healthcare business to johnson &amp; johnson for 16.6 billion in december 2006. revenues from our consumer healthcare business were 4.0 billion for full-year 2006. pfizer website our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are available on our website (www.pfizer.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). throughout this 2006 form 10-k, we incorporate by reference certain information from parts of other documents filed with the sec, including our annual report to shareholders for 2006 and our proxy statement for the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders (2007 proxy statement). the sec allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. please refer to such information. our annual report to shareholders consists of: the 2006 annual review (2006 annual review); and the 2006 financial report (2006 financial report), which is contained in appendix a to our 2007 proxy statement; and the peer group performance graph ( peer group graph ) which is contained in appendix b to our 2007 proxy statement. portions of our 2006 financial report are filed as exhibit 13 to this 2006 form 10-k. on or about march 15, 2007, our 2006 annual review, our 2006 financial report and our 2007 proxy statement and peer group graph will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com). information relating to corporate governance at pfizer, including our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; chief executive officer and chief financial officer certifications; pfizer policies on business conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and principal accounting officer); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; as well as information concerning our directors; e-mail communication with our directors; board committees; committee charters and the lead independent director charter; and transactions in pfizer securities by directors and officers, is available on our website (www.pfizer.com). we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to margaret 1 m. foran, senior vice president-corporate governance, associate general counsel and corporate secretary, pfizer inc., 235 east 42nd street, new york, ny 10017-5755. information relating to shareholder services, including our shareholder investment program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website (www.pfizer.com). business segments we operate in two business segments: pharmaceutical and animal health. we also operate several other businesses, including the manufacture of empty soft-gelatin capsules, contract manufacturing and bulk pharmaceutical chemicals. due to the size of these businesses, they are grouped into the corporate/other category of our segment information. comparative segment revenues and related financial information for 2006, 2005, and 2004 are presented in the tables captioned segment and revenues by therapeutic area in note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, segment, geographic and revenue information, in our 2006 financial report. the information from those sections of our 2006 financial report is incorporated by reference in this 2006 form 10-k. our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries where we operate. in the u.s., the principal authority regulating our operations is the food and drug administration (fda). the fda regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. see government regulation and price constraints below. pharmaceutical our pharmaceutical business is the largest pharmaceutical business in the world. this segment includes products that treat cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, central nervous system disorders, arthritis and pain, infectious and respiratory diseases, urogenital conditions, cancer, eye disease, endocrine disorders and allergies. as of october 2006, our portfolio of medicines included three of the world 25 best-selling medicines, with seven medicines that led their therapeutic areas. in 2006, pharmaceutical revenues increased 2%, to 45.1 billion, primarily due to the solid overall performance of our broad portfolio of patent-protected medicines, including an aggregate year-over-year increase in revenues from new products launched since 2004, partially offset by the impact of the loss of u.s. exclusivity on zithromax in november 2005, and zoloft in june 2006, as well as on the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to many foreign currencies, primarily the japanese yen and the euro. revenues from this segment contributed 93.2% of our total revenues in 2006, 93.4% in 2005 and 94.1% in 2004. in 2006, lipitor, norvasc, zoloft and each delivered at least 2 billion in revenues while lyrica, viagra, detrol/detrol la, xalatan/xalacom and zyrtec/zytrec d each surpassed 1 billion. a table captioned revenues - major pharmaceutical products , in our 2006 financial report is incorporated by reference. our principal pharmaceutical products and certain recently approved products are as follows: cardiovascular and metabolic diseases lipitor , for the treatment of elevated cholesterol levels in the blood, is the most widely used treatment for lowering cholesterol and the best-selling pharmaceutical product of any kind in the world. norvasc is the world most-prescribed branded medicine for treating hypertension. it has experienced patent expirations in many european union (eu) countries. norvasc maintains exclusivity in many major markets globally, including the u.s., japan, canada and australia. caduet is a single pill therapy combining lipitor and norvasc for prevention of cardiovascular events. caduet has been approved in 58 markets and is available in more than 16 countries (including the u.s.). 2 chantix/champix , the first new prescription treatment for smoking cessation in nearly a decade, became available to patients in the u.s. in august 2006. in september 2006, the european commission approved champix in europe for smoking cessation, and it was launched in selected eu markets in december 2006. exubera , the first inhaled human insulin therapy for glycemic control, was approved by the fda and the european commission in early 2006 for the treatment of adults with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. since may 2006, exubera has been launched in germany, ireland, the u.k. and the u.s. central nervous system disorders zoloft , which lost exclusivity in the u.s. in june 2006 and earlier in many european markets, experienced a 35% revenue decline in 2006 compared to 2005. it is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder, panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder in adults and children, post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd), premenstrual dysphoric disorder (pmdd) and social anxiety disorder (sad). geodon/zeldox , a psychotropic agent, is a dopamine and serotonin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder. available in both an oral capsule and rapid-acting intramuscular formulation, geodon has become the fastest growing anti-psychotic medication in the u.s. aricept , discovered and developed by eisai co., ltd., is the world leading medicine to treat symptoms of alzheimer disease. we co-promote aricept with eisai in the u.s. and several other countries and have an exclusive license to sell this medicine in certain other countries. lyrica was approved by the fda in june 2005 for adjuctive therapy for adults with partial onsent epileptic seizures. this indication built on the earlier fda approval of lyrica for the treatment of two of the most common forms of neuropathic pain - painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy, a chronic neurologic condition affecting nearly three million americans, and post-herpetic neuralgia. lyrica was launched in the u.s., canada and italy in september 2005 and is now approved in 77 countries and is currently available in 59 markets. arthritis and pain celebrex is for the treatment of osteoarthritis, adult rheumatoid arthritis, acute pain, menstrual pain and familial adenomatous polyposis. it also was approved by the fda in july 2005 and in europe in february 2007, for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis, a form of spinal arthritis, and in december 2006, for the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. see the discussion of labeling changes relating to celebrex under the heading pharmaceutical - selected product descriptions, celebrex in the financial review section of our 2006 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. infectious and respiratory diseases zithromax is for the treatment of bacterial infections. zithromax is licensed to us exclusively by pliva, a croatian pharmaceutical company. zithromax lost basic patent protection in the u.s. in november 2005 and experienced a 69% decline in worldwide sales in 2006 compared to 2005. vfend is a treatment that can be administered orally or intravenously for certain serious and potentially fatal fungal infections, for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis and for the treatment of certain blood stream infections in non-neutropenic patients (those without low white blood cell counts). it is also available in an oral-suspension formulation suitable for patients unable to swallow the tablet form. zyvox is for the treatment of bacterial infections, which increasingly are caused by drug-resistant bacteria, and the treatment of diabetic foot infections. zyvox is available in intravenous, tablet and oral-suspension formulations. 3 urology viagra remains the leading treatment for erectile dysfunction (ed), and one of the world most recognized pharmaceutical brands. for further information on viagra and the overall ed market, see the discussion under the headings pharmaceutical-selected product descriptions, viagra in the financial review section of our 2006 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. detrol is the world leading product for the treatment of overactive bladder. detrol la is an extended-release formulation of this medicine, taken once a day. oncology camptosar , which is marketed under the name campto in many countries outside the u.s., is indicated as first-line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. sutent is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor that combines anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activity to inhibit the blood supply to tumors. sutent was approved by the fda and launched in the u.s. in january 2006 for advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastic renal cell carcinoma, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors ( gist ) after disease progression on or intolerance to imatinib mesylate. in january 2007, sutent received full marketing authorization and extension of the indication to first-line treatment of advanced and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma, as well as approval for second-line treatment of gist in the eu. ophthalmology xalatan/xalacom is the most-prescribed branded glaucoma medicine in the world. it is used to treat open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. xalacom , the only fixed combination prostaglandin (xalatan) in combination with a beta blocker, is available primarily in european markets. endocrine disorders genotropin is the world leading human recombinant growth hormone. it is used for the treatment of various growth disorders in children and adults. novo nordisk has granted us a non-exclusive license to sell genotropin in the u.s. other zyrtec is for the treatment of year-round indoor and seasonal outdoor allergies and hives in adults and children. zyrtec continues to be the most-prescribed antihistamine in the u.s. zyrtec is licensed to us by the belgian company ucb s.a. for sale in the u.s. we co-promote zyrtec as a prescription medicine in the u.s. with a subsidiary of ucb s.a. we will lose u.s. exclusivity for zyrtec in december 2007. since we sold our rights to market zyrtec over-the-counter in connection with the sale of our consumer healthcare business, we expect no revenue from zyrtec after the expiration of the u.s. patent in december. animal health our animal health business is one of the largest in the world. we discover, develop and sell products for the prevention and treatment of diseases in livestock and companion animals. in 2006, animal health revenues increased 5%, to 2.3 billion, primarily due to the continued performance of draxxin (single dose anti-infective for cattle and swine) in europe and the u.s. and revolution (a parasiticide for dogs and cats). revenues from this segment contributed 4.8% of our total revenues in 2006, 4.6% of our total revenues in 2005 and 4.0% of our total revenues in 2004. among the products we market are parasiticides, anti-inflammatories, vaccines, antibiotics and related medicines, including the products discussed below. parasiticides constitute the largest segment of the animal health market for companion animals, consisting mainly of medicines for the control of parasites such as fleas and heartworm. our product, revolution, is our largest-selling parasiticide for dogs and cats. rimadyl relieves pain and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and soft tissue orthopedic surgery. rimadyl is the only 4 arthritis pain medication prescribed by veterinarians available in chewable tablets, regular caplets and in an injectable formulation. u.s. rimadyl revenues declined in 2006 due to lower-than-anticipated non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug market growth and intense branded competition as well as increased generic competition in the european companion animal market. clavamox/synulox is an antibiotic for skin and soft tissue infections in dogs and cats. our vaccine portfolio for livestock is extensive and includes respisureone/stellamuneone, a single-dose vaccine used to prevent pneumonia in swine, and bovi-shield gold, a cattle vaccine for reproductive and respiratory protection. dectomax injectable and pour-on formulations remove and control internal and external parasites in beef cattle. naxcel/excenel rtu is an antibiotic used to treat respiratory and internal infections in cattle and swine. research and product development innovation by our research and development operations is very important to the company success. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. this goal has been supported by our substantial research and development investments. we spent 7.6 billion in 2006, 7.3 billion in 2005 and 7.5 billion in 2004 on research and development in support of pfizer pharmaceutical and animal health businesses. we conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. we also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery or development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through acquisition, licensing or other arrangements. drug discovery and development is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. on average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds discovered by researchers proves to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. the process from early discovery to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research. we believe that our investments in research have been rewarded by the number of pharmaceutical compounds we have in all stages of development. we currently are working on 249 projects in development, including 177 new molecular entities and 72 product-line extensions. in addition, we have more than 350 projects in discovery research. in recent years, our discovery scientists have delivered over 100 new chemical compounds to early development. while these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering development are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development as well as supplemental filings for existing products is set forth under the heading product developments in our 2006 financial report. that information is incorporated by reference. pfizer recently provided more detail on its pipeline than ever before with the launch of an on-line site for tracking development compounds across pfizer largest-ever pipeline. this new website, launched in december 2006, will be updated twice a year and is available at http://www.pfizer.com/pipeline. our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. in addition, the consolidation that has occurred in our industry has created companies with substantial research and development resources. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our products and unanticipated product obsolescence. 5 international operations we have significant operations outside the united states. they are managed through the same business segments as our u.s. operations -pharmaceutical and animal health. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of 22.5 billion accounted for 46.6% of our total revenues in 2006. revenues exceeded 500 million in each of 10 countries outside the u.s. in 2006. the u.s. was the only country to contribute more than 10% of our total revenues, comprising 53.4% of total revenues in 2006, 52.2% of total revenues in 2005 and 56.7% of total revenues in 2004. japan is our second-largest national market, with 6.7% of our revenues in 2006, 7.3% in 2005 and 6.4% in 2004. for a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see the table captioned geographic in note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, segment, geographic and revenue information, in our 2006 financial report and the table captioned change in revenues by segment and geographic area in our 2006 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. these include currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws on pricing, reimbursement and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints below for discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. in 2006, revenues were unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange, as foreign currency movements relative to the u.s. dollar decreased our reported revenues in many countries. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. see the discussion under note 9-d to our consolidated financial statements, financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2006 financial report. that discussion is incorporated by reference. related information about valuation and risks associated with such financial instruments in parts e and f of that same note is also incorporated by reference. marketing in our global pharmaceutical business, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, pharmacy benefit managers (pbms), managed care organizations (mcos) and government agencies. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s., through direct-to-consumer print and television advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits, and risks of our products while continuing to motivate people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs in all major markets. our operations include several pharmaceutical sales organizations. our structure aligns the sales, marketing, and medical functions to work closely in tandem along the same therapeutic groups of products, reinforcing common coordination, focus, and accountability across the organizations. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. we seek to gain access to health authority, pbm and mco formularies (lists of recommended, approved, and/or reimbursed medicines and other products) by demonstrating the clinical and economic value of our products. we also work with mcos and pbms and other appropriate healthcare providers to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. in 2005, for instance, we were awarded a center for medicare/medicaid studies ( cms ) contract to provide the green ribbon health initiative, a joint-partnership with the mco 6 humana designed to improve the health and quality of life for beneficiaries with multiple chronic conditions in central florida. our animal health business also uses its own sales organization to promote its products. its advertising and promotion are generally targeted to health professionals, directly and through veterinary journals. animal health products are sold through veterinarians, distributors and retail outlets as well as directly to users. where appropriate, these products are also marketed through print and television advertising. during 2006, sales to our three largest customers were as follows: mckesson, inc. 20% of our total revenues; cardinal health, inc. 13% of our total revenues; and amerisourcebergen corporation 11% of our total revenues. sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the pharmaceutical segment. apart from these instances, neither of our business segments is dependent on any one customer or group of related customers. patents and intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the u.s. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below. the table also includes patent expiration information relating to certain recently approved drugs. u.s. basic product patent drug expiration year norvasc 2007 zyrtec 2007 camptosar 2008 aricept 2010 lipitor 2010 xalatan 2011 viagra 2012 detrol 2012 celebrex 2014 chantix 2018 lyrica 2018 sutent 2021 in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions of the drug or to methods of manufacturing or using the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect the company drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent. the u.s. basic product patent for zoloft expired in june 2006 and for zithromax in november 2005. zyrtec is patented by the belgian company ucb s.a. and is licensed to us for sales in the u.s. we co-promote zyrtec as a prescription medicine in the u.s. with a subsidiary of ucb s.a. the u.s. basic patent for zyrtec expires in december 2007. aricept is patented by eisai co., ltd. we co-promote aricept with eisai in the u.s. and several other countries and have an exclusive license to sell the drug in certain other countries. 7 in addition to our u.s. basic product patent for lipitor, which (including the pediatric exclusivity period) expires in march 2010, we have a patent covering specifically the enantiomeric form of the drug, which (including the pediatric exclusivity period) expires in june 2011. see note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings and contingencies, in our 2006 financial report regarding a pending legal challenge to our lipitor patents in the u.s. we market genotropin in the u.s. under a non-exclusive license from novo-nordisk. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products, lipitor, norvasc, celebrex and detrol . we also have other patent rights covering additional products that have lesser revenues. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in sales of that product in a very short period. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to over-the-counter products. one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights is improving. the general agreement on tariffs and trade requires participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by the end of a ten-year transition period. a number of countries are doing this. we have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those nations, and our continued business expansion in those countries depends to a large degree on further patent protection improvement. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our human pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded drugs or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our pharmaceutical business is the largest in the world. our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat similar diseases or indications as our major products. such competition affects our core product innovation business, focused on discovering and marketing products that satisfy unmet medical needs and providing therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development over the past decade, resulting in one of the strongest product pipelines in the industry. our investment in research does not stop with a drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat as well as potentially new conditions. we also continue to enhance the organizational effectiveness of our pharmaceutical sales and marketing functions, coordinating support for our salespeople efforts to launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we are taking important measures to address this business environment, including the reduction of our u.s. sales force by 20%, completed in december 2006, the ongoing reduction of our european sales force by more than 20% (subject to consultation with works councils and local labor laws), and the restructuring of our u.s. pharmaceutical operations into four business units to create a more focused and entrepreneurial 8 environment, with a fifth business unit to be responsible for customer support and specifically focused on managed care and access. we continue to evaluate, adapt, and improve our business practices to better meet customer and public needs. for instance, we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to direct-to-consumer advertising and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through campaigns for better healthcare solutions. while our animal health business is one of the largest in the world, many other companies offer competitive products. altogether, there are hundreds of producers of animal health products throughout the world. the principal methods of competition vary somewhat depending on the particular product. they include product innovation, quality, price, service and effective promotion to veterinary professionals and consumers. managed care organizations the growth of mcos in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 180 million people in the u.s. now participate in some version of managed care. because of the size of the patient population covered by mcos, marketing of prescription drugs to them and the pbms that serve many of those organizations continues to grow in importance. mcos can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. the purchasing power of mcos has been increasing in recent years due to their growing numbers of enrolled patients. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this enhances their purchasing strength and importance to us. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. they typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. they use their purchasing power to bargain for lower supplier prices. they also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors offices and clinics. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can prevent the need for hospitalization, professional therapy or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. as discussed above in marketing, mcos and pbms typically develop formularies. formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines are often favored. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. mcos use a variety of means to encourage patients use of products listed on their formularies. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other restrictions, such as requiring prior authorizations, can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects. a lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on most mco formularies. the impact of mcos on drug prices and volumes may increase as the result of their role in negotiating on behalf of medicare beneficiaries in connection with the new medicare out-patient prescription drug benefit, medicare part d, that took effect january 1, 2006. mcos and pbms negotiate on behalf of the federal government as prescription drug plans (pdps). we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of the new medicare pdps for both 2006 and 2007. 9 another way we demonstrate the value of pharmaceuticals in the context of an appropriate approach to the management of healthcare is by developing disease management programs. these programs can improve patient care by improving patient communications and compliance with dosage directions. they can also help show that a comprehensive approach to healthcare management, which includes prevention, diagnosis and treatment of certain conditions, and appropriate use of pharmaceuticals, can improve the quality of care and lower costly complications of chronic diseases. as noted above in marketing, we developed a new company, green ribbon health, with the mco humana, to provide medicare health support services under a contract with cms. the services are designed to improve the health and quality of life for beneficiaries with multiple chronic conditions in central florida. additionally, beginning in 2001, we contracted with the state of florida agency for health care administration to help manage chronic diseases among florida medicaid population. that program was expanded in 2006 under a new contract pfizer was awarded by florida medicaid to provide comprehensive disease management programs for a larger scope of chronically ill beneficiaries through 2009. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period. several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiry. generic competitors operate without our large research and development expenses and our costs of conveying medical information about our products to the medical community. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the bloodstream equivalent to that of the innovator product. this means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and charge much less. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. for example, lipitor began to face competition from generic pravastatin (pravachol) and generic simvastatin (zocor) during 2006. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. the substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. in the u.s., pfizer greenstone subsidiary sells generic versions of pfizer pharmaceutical products upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. no serious shortages or delays were encountered in 2006, and none are expected in 2007. government regulation and price constraints in the united states general. pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. of particular importance is the fda in the u.s. it has jurisdiction over our human pharmaceutical business and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our pharmaceutical products. the fda also regulates our animal health products, along with the u.s. 10 department of agriculture and the u.s. environmental protection agency. in addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the department of health and human services, the federal trade commission and the department of justice. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. we are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various regulatory bodies (see note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings and contingencies, in our 2006 financial report). such actions may include product recalls, seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. the u.s. congress and the fda are considering proposals to change how the fda assesses follow-on biological products. changes that would facilitate the approval of such products could have an adverse impact on the company business. medicare. in december 2003, the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 (the 2003 medicare act) was enacted. medicare beneficiaries are now eligible to obtain subsidized prescription drug coverage from a choice of private sector plans. it remains difficult to predict the long-term impact of the 2003 medicare act on pharmaceutical companies. usage of pharmaceuticals is likely to increase as the result of the expanded access to medicines afforded by coverage under medicare. however, such expanded utilization may be offset by the increased pricing pressure and competition due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, effective january 1, 2007, medicare ended reimbursement for ed medicines, including viagra . pfizer is committed to helping ensure that all americans without coverage for prescription medicines have access to pfizer products. to that end, in 2004, we implemented our helpful answers program, an umbrella program that brings together pfizer long-standing patient assistance programs with pfizer pfriends, a new prescription discount card offering savings on pfizer prescription medicines for all americans without prescription drug coverage, regardless of age or income. in addition, in january 2005, we joined together rx access with nine other pharmaceutical companies to offer savings on over 275 medicines to medicare-ineligible, uninsured individuals under 65 who fall below certain income thresholds. pfizer also participates in the partnership for prescription assistance, a single point of access to more than 475 public and private patient assistance programs. importation of drugs. there continue to be legislative proposals to amend u.s. law to allow the importation into the u.s. of prescription drugs from outside the u.s., which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. in addition to well documented safety concerns, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in the u.s. while the 2003 medicare act maintains the current prohibition on such imports, it would allow importation from canada if the secretary of health and human services certifies that such importation is safe and would result in savings to consumers. before the 2003 medicare act, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the u.s. from a considerably larger group of developed countries, provided the secretary of health and human services made the same safety and cost-savings certifications. in december 2004, the department of health and human services (hhs) and the department of commerce issued reports on drug importation and foreign price controls. the hhs report noted that it would be extraordinarily difficult to ensure that drugs personally imported by individual consumers could meet the standards of safety that would support certifying such importation as safe. while the report also concluded that the u.s. could establish a feasible basis for commercial drug importation, such a change in the law would require new legal authorities, substantial additional resources and significant restrictions on the types of drugs that could be imported. the report also noted that the total savings to be expected from such a commercial importation regime would be relatively small 1% or 2% of total drug spending in the u.s. the commerce department report confirmed that the lower prices in many countries result from governmental price 11 controls, and these price controls adversely affect the amount of funding that is available for the discovery of new drugs. medicaid and related matters. federal law requires us to give rebates to state medicaid agencies based on each state reimbursement of pharmaceutical products under the medicaid program. in recent years, various proposals have been offered at the federal and state levels that would bring about major changes in the medicaid program. a national commission recently released a list of recommended reforms in the medicaid program, although the fate of those reforms is very uncertain in the current congress. in the short term, driven by budget concerns, many states have implemented restrictive drug lists and state supplemental rebate programs under the medicaid program. these programs require deeper rebate payments by pfizer in order to have our products listed on formularies in states with such rebate programs. more than 40 states have implemented some form of formulary restrictions in their medicaid programs. currently, pfizer enjoys relatively broad formulary access in state medicaid programs. since january 1, 2006, federal funds have not been used for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications, including viagra, in the medicaid program. in addition, effective january 1, 2007, changes to treatment of authorized generics for purposes of calculating medicaid rebates will increase the amount of rebates we are required to pay on brand name drug sales after loss of exclusivity and on authorized generic sales to the medicaid program. changes implemented under the medicaid program prior to 2006, that further restrict the access of a significant number of patients to our products, and require significantly deeper rebate payments, are being mitigated by the shrinking size of the medicaid drug program. those people who are eligible for both medicaid and medicare (often called dual eligibles ) had been receiving their drug benefits under the medicaid program. beginning in 2006, their coverage was transferred to the new medicare part d program. this reduced the number of enrollees in medicaid drug programs, the size of the medicaid drug program, and its impact on our business. while the medicaid market is now smaller, changes at the state level could impact larger federal and commercial accounts. in addition, some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid eligible, as well as various approaches to controlling pharmaceutical marketing activities. a state-administered pharmacy discount program was enacted by the state of california during 2006 that has potential impact on access and reimbursement for our products in the med-cal program. the fate of this new discount card program is uncertain given the federal government previous concerns about programs with similar structures. moreover, full implementation of the california program, even if it were approved by the federal government, is several years away. however, if many states were to require steep rebate payments in discount programs for the uninsured and to link medicaid beneficiaries access to our products to such discount programs, the impact on patients access to medicines and on pfizer could be significant. we also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. see the discussion regarding rebates in the revenues section of our 2006 financial report and in note 1-g to our consolidated financial statements, significant accounting policies, revenues, in our 2006 financial report, which discussions are incorporated by reference. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. the approval of new drugs across the eu may only be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure/decentralized procedure or eu commission/emea central approval process, which applies in the (now) 27 eu member states 12 (since bulgaria and romania joined on january 1, 2007), plus norway and iceland, which are full participants in these registration processes. the use of these procedures provides a more rapid and consistent approval across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country. since the eu does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to deal with individual countries on such matters across the region. during 2004, a comprehensive package of reforms was adopted (called new medicines legislation) amending eu law on the regulation of medicinal products in many areas, including approval procedures and safety reporting. of particular note, the data exclusivity periods during which innovative companies regulatory data are protected are required to be harmonized in all member states and implementation is complete or underway in most member states, which will facilitate the approval and launch of generic medicines. in addition, these reforms introduced a clear legal basis for the approval of biosimilar or follow-on biological products in the eu. following the effectiveness of these new regulations (in november 2005), the first such products, including a biosimilar version of genotropin, were approved in the eu in 2006. the new regulations also shortened certain approval timelines and introduced fast-track and conditional centralized authorizations. pfizer sutent was the first product to be conditionally approved under the new law in 2006 (although its status has now converted to full authorization). more recently, on january 26, 2007, the new eu regulation on medicines for pediatric use became effective. this introduces new obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines in children and, subject to various conditions, offers the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. environmental law compliance most of our operations are affected by federal, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites (see note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings and contingencies, in our 2006 financial report). as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2006 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures 47 million other environment-related expenses 206 million while we cannot predict with certainty future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, taxes on income, in our 2006 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2006, we employed approximately 98,000 people in our operations throughout the world. on january 22, 2007, the company announced, as a part of its priorities to drive improved performance, position the company for future success and enhance total shareholder return, a plan to eliminate about 10,000 positions, or about 10% of pfizer worldwide workforce, by the end of 2008. 13 item 1a. risk factors and cautionary factors that may affect future results the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2006 form 10-k and in our 2006 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target , forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or business plans or prospects. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. government regulation and managed care trends u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. in the u.s., many of our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures may increase as the result of the 2003 medicare act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 medicare act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. in addition, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including the importation of prescription drugs that are marketed from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. the prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of ed medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the 14 medicare program, which became effective january 1, 2007, may adversely affect our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. the u.s. basic patent for zoloft expired in 2006 and will expire in 2007 for each of norvasc and zyrtec . generic versions of zoloft were launched in 2006 and we expect generic versions of norvasc and zyrtec to be launched in 2007. the u.s. basic patents on camptosar and inspra expire in 2008. also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including lipitor, norvasc, celebrex, detrol and caduet, are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. for example, lipitor began to face competition from generic pravastatin (pravachol) and generic simvastatin (zocor) during 2006. in 2006, the fda approved a new branded somatropin product that will compete with genotropin. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with our drugs, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. launches of a number of competitive products have occurred recently, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line and new products we recorded product sales of more than 1 billion for each of nine pharmaceutical products in 2006: lipitor, norvasc, zoloft, lyrica, celebrex, viagra, detrol/detrol la, xalatan/xalacom and zyrtec. those products accounted for 64% of our pharmaceutical revenues in 2006. lipitor sales in 2006 were approximately 12.9 billion, accounting for 28.6% of our total 2006 pharmaceutical revenues. if these or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from existing competitive products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines recently have expired or will expire this year or next year, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products, including lyrica, exubera, sutent, chantix/ champix and eraxis . 15 uncertainty relating to cox-2 medicines our ability to increase celebrex sales may be limited by the continuing concern about the safety of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain relievers. research and development investment the discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products is very important to the success of the company. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products risks and uncertainties particularly apply with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there also are many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. more detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. we try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. interest rate and foreign exchange risk 46.6% of our total 2006 revenues were derived from international operations, including 29.3% from the europe/canada region and 12.3% from the japan/asia region. these international-based revenues as well as our substantial international assets expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled financial risk management in our 2006 financial report. for additional details, see note 9-d to our consolidated financial statements, financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities foreign exchange risk, in our 2006 financial report. those sections of our 2006 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. 16 product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand, or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results. cost and expense control/unusual events growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of our adapting to scale multi-year productivity initiative, including the projected benefits of the broadening of this initiative over the next few years. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we plan to enhance our pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances (see regulatory environment and pipeline productivity under overview of our performance and operating environment in our 2006 financial report, which section is incorporated by reference). however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities. item 1b. unresolved staff comments not applicable. item 2. properties our corporate headquarters and the headquarters of our worldwide pharmaceuticals and animal health businesses are located at our world headquarters, which includes several owned and leased buildings in new york city. for our worldwide pharmaceuticals business, we own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing, administrative support and customer service functions. 17 our global research and development division is headquartered in owned facilities in new london, connecticut and operates in 20 locations around the world, which includes the recent addition of strategic facilities in south san francisco, california and shanghai, china. our primary pharmaceutical research and development operations are in owned and leased facilities located in ann arbor and kalamazoo, michigan; cambridge, massachusetts; la jolla, california; groton, connecticut; st. louis, missouri; sandwich, england, u.k.; amboise, france; and nagoya, japan. more efficient use of our r&amp;d facilities is a component of pfizer productivity initiatives and the expansion of those initiatives announced january 22, 2007, in which the company disclosed its plan to close research and development facilities in ann arbor, esperion and kalamazoo, michigan and, subject to consultation with works councils and local labor laws, amboise, france and nagoya, japan. we have veterinary medicine research and development operations in owned facilities in henrietta and richland township, michigan; lincoln, nebraska; and sandwich, england, and in leased facilities in melbourne, australia. our global manufacturing (pgm) division is headquartered in new york, n.y. and in peapack, n.j. and operates plants in 61 locations around the world that manufacture products for our pharmaceutical and animal health businesses. major facilities are located in belgium, brazil, china, france, germany, ireland, italy, japan, mexico, puerto rico, singapore, sweden, the united kingdom and the united states. the global manufacturing division also operates distribution facilities in major markets around the world. as part of pfizer adapting to scale productivity initiatives, 16 of the manufacturing facilities are scheduled to be sold or closed in the next three years as global manufacturing continues to optimize its plant network. this includes a number of plants that were announced for closure in early 2007 as part of pfizer streamlining initiatives. studies are underway to further consolidate the distribution network. in general, our properties are well maintained, adequate and suitable for their purposes. see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, property, plant and equipment, in our 2006 financial report, which discloses amounts invested in land, buildings and equipment, which is incorporated by reference. see also the discussion under note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, lease commitments , in our 2006 financial report, which is also incorporated by reference. item 3. legal proceedings certain legal proceedings in which we are involved are discussed in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings and contingencies, in our 2006 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders not applicable. 18 executive officers of the company the executive officers of the company are set forth in this table. each holds the offices indicated until his successor is chosen and qualified at the regular meeting of the board of directors to be held immediately following the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders. each of the executive officers is a member of the pfizer executive leadership team. name age position jeffrey b. kindler 51 chairman of the board and chief executive officer richard h. bagger 46 our senior vice president, worldwide public affairs and policy, since august 2006. since joining pfizer in 1993, mr. bagger has held various positions of increasing responsibility in pfizer corporate affairs division. he was promoted to vice president, governmental relations in 2002 and to senior vice president, governmental relations in 2003. he assumed additional responsibility for public affairs and policy in 2005. prior to joining pfizer, he was assistant general counsel of blue cross and blue shield of new jersey and previously practiced law with the firm of mccarter and english. mr. bagger also served in both houses of the new jersey legislature. joseph m. feczko 57 our senior vice president and chief medical officer, since august 2006. dr. feczko has held various positions of increasing responsibility in research and development and medical and regulatory operations. after four years as medical director at glaxo research &amp; development headquarters in london, dr. feczko returned to pfizer in 1996 and was promoted to the position of senior vice president, medical and regulatory operations for global pharmaceuticals. he was promoted to his position as chief medical officer in 2002. dr. feczko, who is board-certified in internal medicine and a specialist in infectious diseases, joined us in 1982. john l. lamattina 56 senior vice president; president, pfizer research and development ian c. read 53 senior vice president; president, worldwide pharmaceutical operations david l. shedlarz 59 vice chairman allen p. waxman 44 our senior vice president and general counsel, since august 2006. mr. waxman joined pfizer in 2003 as senior assistant general counsel and chief of litigation. he was promoted to associate general counsel in 2005 and to general counsel in 2006. prior to joining pfizer, mr. waxman was a partner at the law firm of williams &amp; connolly, llp in washington d.c., since 1995, and during that same period he was an adjunct professor of law at georgetown university law center. information concerning mr. kindler, and for messrs. lamattina, read and shedlarz, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings nominees for directors and named executive officers who are not directors in our 2007 proxy statement. 19 part ii item 5. market for the company common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the principal market for our common stock is the new york stock exchange. our stock is also listed on the london, euronext and swiss stock exchanges and is traded on various united states regional stock exchanges. additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference financial data (unaudited) in our 2006 financial report. this table provides certain information with respect to our purchases of shares of the company common stock during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2006: issuer purchases of equity securities(a) approximate average total number of dollar value of price shares purchased as shares that may total number of paid per part of publicly yet be purchased period shares purchased (b) share (b) announced plan (a) under the plan (a) october 2, 2006 through october 31, 2006 9,343,904 27.32 9,333,000 12,755,464,791 november 1, 2006 through november 30, 2006 42,001,168 26.77 41,984,005 11,631,551,975 december 1, 2006 through december 31, 2006 42,805,679 25.88 42,652,581 10,527,990,310 total 94,150,751 26.42 93,969,586 (a) on june 23, 2005, pfizer announced that the board of directors had authorized a 5 billion share- purchase plan (the 2005 stock purchase plan ). on june 26, 2006, pfizer announced that the board of directors increased the 2005 stock purchase plan authorization from 5 billion to 18 billion. (b) in addition to purchases under the 2005 stock purchase plan, this column reflects the following transactions during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2006: (i) the deemed surrender to pfizer of 27,306 shares of common stock to pay the exercise price and to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the exercise of employee stock options, (ii) the open-market purchase by the trustee of 74,164 shares of common stock in connection with the reinvestment of dividends paid on common stock held in trust for employees who were granted performance-contingent share awards and who deferred receipt of such awards and (iii) the surrender to pfizer of 79,695 shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. 20 item 6. selected financial data information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the financial summary in our 2006 financial report. item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the financial review section of our 2006 financial report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management in our 2006 financial report.risk factors and cautionary factors that may affect future results 13 risk factors and cautionary factors that may affect future results the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2007 form 10-k and in our 2007 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target , forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or business plans or prospects. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could 13 differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. government regulation and managed care trends u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. in the u.s., many of our pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures have increased as the result of the 2003 medicare act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 medicare act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. in addition, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented and other states are considering price controls or patient-access constraints under the medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries and restrictions on u.s. direct-to- consumer advertising or limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals. the prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of ed medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the medicare program, which became effective january 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. the u.s. basic patent for norvasc expired in 2007 and a generic version was launched promptly. the u.s. basic patent for zyrtec/zyrtec d expired in december 2007 and an over-the-counter version was launched in late january 2008 by the purchaser of 14 our consumer healthcare business. the u.s. basic patent for camptosar expired in february 2008. also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including lipitor, celebrex, detrol/detrol la, caduet and aricept, are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. for example, lipitor began to face competition from generic pravastatin (pravachol) and generic simvastatin (zocor) during 2006. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with our drugs, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. launches of a number of competitive products have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line and new products we recorded product sales of more than 1 billion for each of eight pharmaceutical products in 2007: lipitor, norvasc, lyrica, celebrex, viagra, detrol/detrol la, xalatan/xalacom and zyrtec/zyrtec d . those products accounted for 58.0% of our total pharmaceutical revenues in 2007. lipitor sales in 2007 were approximately 12.7 billion, accounting for 28.4% of our total 2007 pharmaceutical revenues. the u.s. basic patents for norvasc and zyrtec/zyrtec d expired in 2007. if the other six products or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence or pressure from existing competitive products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products, including lyrica, sutent, chantix/champix and selzentry/celsentri . uncertainty relating to cox-2 medicines our ability to further increase celebrex sales may be limited by the continuing concern about the safety of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain relievers. research and development investment the discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products is very important to the success of the company. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products risks and uncertainties apply particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there also are many considerations that can affect marketing of pharmaceutical products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are 15 a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. more detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. we try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. interest rate and foreign exchange risk 52.2% of our total 2007 revenues were derived from international operations, including 32.9% from the europe/canada region and 13.4% from the japan/asia region. these international-based revenues as well as our substantial international net assets expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled financial risk management in our 2007 financial report. for additional details, see note 10-d to our consolidated financial statements, financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, in our 2007 financial report. those sections of our 2007 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results. cost and expense control/unusual events growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), competition laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. 16 legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we plan to enhance our product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances (see regulatory environment and pipeline productivity under our operating environment and response to key opportunities and challenges in our 2007 financial report, which section is incorporated by reference). however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities. information technology we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. the size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. while we have invested heavily in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management in our 2007 financial report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management on page 35 of our 2001 annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management on pages 40 and 41 of our 2002 annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management on pages 19 and 20 of our 2003 financial report.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management in our 2004 financial report.risk factors 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management in our 2008 financial report.risk factors 18 risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2009 form 10-k and in our 2009 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or business plans or prospects. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. health care reform both the united states house of representatives and the united states senate have passed bills to implement significant health care reform. however, negotiations between the senate and the house have not progressed to resolve the differences in the bills it is uncertain at this time whether and when health care reform may be implemented and what form it may take. therefore, we cannot determine at this time what impact health care reform will have on the company, if any. for example, as the bills stand currently, a provision in the senate bill would empower an advisory panel to recommend annual medicare cost-saving proposals. congress then would be required to consider the proposals on an expedited basis, would have limited ability to revise them and, if it fails to act, the advisory panel proposals would be implemented automatically. the advisory panel cost-cutting proposals could have a negative effect on our future revenue. as mentioned above, the pharmaceutical industry pledged an $80 billion contribution over 10 years, including increased medicaid rebates, medicare coverage gap discounts, a pathway for follow on biologics and an excise tax of $2.3 billion annually. these costs are not expected to be offset by increased sales from coverage of the uninsured. at this time no assurances can be given that health care reform will not have an adverse effect on our revenue in the future. government regulation and managed care trends u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient 18 table of contents access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. in the u.s., many of our biopharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures have increased as the result of the 2003 medicare modernization act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 medicare modernization act were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. furthermore, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient-access constraints under the medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries, restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising or limitations on interactions with health care professionals and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. the prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the medicare part d program, which became effective january 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, the government provides health care at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored health care system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products from markets with lower prices. such trade exploiting price differences between countries can undermine our sales in markets with higher prices. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions could also adversely impact revenue. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including lipitor, caduet, detrol/detrol la, lyrica, tygacil, zyvox and aricept, are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. for example, lipitor began to face competition from generic pravastatin (pravachol) and generic simvastatin (zocor) during 2006. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of nine legacy pfizer pharmaceutical products in 2009: lipitor, norvasc, 19 table of contents lyrica, celebrex, viagra, detrol/detrol la, xalatan/xalacom , geodon and zyvox. those products accounted for 56% of our total biopharmaceutical revenues in 2009. lipitor sales in 2009 were approximately $11.4 billion, accounting for approximately 25% of our total 2009 biopharmaceutical revenues. we did not record more than $1 billion in revenue for any single legacy wyeth product in 2009, since our results do not reflect revenues for legacy wyeth products before the acquisition date of october 15, 2009. if the products referenced above or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. for example, u.s. revenues for chantix declined in 2009 compared to 2008 following changes to the chantix u.s. label during 2008 and 2009. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such as certain types of cancer, multiple sclerosis and hiv. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant payer interest in developing cost containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact on pfizer of payers efforts to control access and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future. research and development investment the discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products are very important to the success of the company. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products risks and uncertainties apply particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there also are many considerations that can affect marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase iv trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007 (the fdaaa) gives the fda enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and 20 table of contents compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. the fda exercise of its authority under the fdaaa could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. foreign regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. biotechnology products government regulation may, in the future, allow more permissive approval regimes for biosimilars (or follow-on biologics ). such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products already approved under the u.s. public health service act. in the u.s., there is not currently an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilars; however, legislation to establish such a pathway is being considered by congress. additionally, the fda has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone that referenced a biotechnology product approved under the u.s. federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition, assuming any relevant data exclusivity period has expired. we expect that we could face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. more detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. we try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. interest rate and foreign exchange risk 57% of our total 2009 revenues were derived from international operations, including 29% from the europe region and 16% from the japan/asia region. these international-based revenues, as well as our substantial international net assets, expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled financial risk management in our 2009 financial report. for additional details, see note 9e to our consolidated financial statements, financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, in our 2009 financial report. those sections of our 2009 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. 21 table of contents risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to, our products, as well as by unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. diversified segment our animal health unit may be impacted by continuing global economic weakness resulting in high unemployment rates and tight credit conditions. a high unemployment rate typically results in reduced traffic in veterinary clinics, negatively impacting our companion animal business. tight credit conditions limit the borrowing power of livestock producers, causing some to switch to lower-priced alternatives. pfizer nutrition may experience significant financial impact associated with changes in national, regional, and international laws, rules and guidelines and their enforcement. our infant and young child nutrition products are subject to an array of rules and regulations enforced by government entities as well as treaties, conventions and guidelines from international authorities. changes to these requirements can significantly impact costs relating to taxes, tariffs, trade, labeling, marketing, manufacturing, and the overall availability of our products. the consumer healthcare unit may be impacted by economic volatility and generic competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal and/or reformulation of certain products (e.g. pseudoephedrine in cough/cold products). global economic conditions the global economic downturn in 2009 and the continuing economic weakness has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a significant impact on our liquidity. due to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity position. however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by recent and possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions. moreover, like other businesses, our results have been adversely impacted by and may continue to be adversely impacted by the weak global economy. the impact of the weak economy on our biopharmaceutical operations has been largely in the u.s. market, affecting products such as lipitor, celebrex and lyrica . we believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the weak economy, including high unemployment levels, and facing increases in co-pays, are sometimes switching to generics, delaying treatments, skipping doses or using less effective treatments to reduce their costs. the weak economy has also increased the number of patients in the medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. our diversified segment has also been impacted by the weak economy, which has adversely affected global spending on veterinary care and on personal healthcare products. there can be no assurance that our results will not continue to be affected by weak global economic conditions. difficulties of our wholesale distributors in 2009, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 17% of our total revenue, and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 38% of our total revenue. if one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with 22 table of contents demand or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, could affect future results. cost and expense control/unusual events growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances (see our strategic initiatives strategy and recent transactions in our 2009 financial report, which is incorporated by reference). however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities. information technology we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. the size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. failure to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of wyeth the success of our recent acquisition of wyeth will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from integrating the operations of pfizer and wyeth. if we are not able to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. 23 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management in our 2009 financial report.risk factors 20 risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2010 form 10-k and in our 2010 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, business plans or prospects, in-line products and product candidates, and share-repurchase and dividend-rate plans. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. healthcare reform as mentioned earlier, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and its provisions are effective on various dates over the next several years. we expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. see the discussion under u.s. healthcare legislation in our 2010 financial report. furthermore, the ipab created by the aca, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new negotiations and programs. we also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the aca. government regulation and managed care trends u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations. in the u.s., many of our biopharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures have increased as the result of the 2003 medicare modernization act due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 medicare modernization act or the aca were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse 20 table of contents impact on our business. furthermore, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient-access constraints under the medicaid program and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries, restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising or limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals and the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. the prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the medicare part d program, which became effective january 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. in particular, there were government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain european countries in 2010, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in europe in 2011. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions could also adversely impact revenue. generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. also, the patents covering several of our most important medicines, including lipitor, caduet, viagra, detrol/detrol la, lyrica, sutent, tygacil , rapamune , relpax , and zyvox, are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of branded products of competitors that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 15 biopharmaceutical products in 2010: lipitor, enbrel, lyrica , prevnar/prevenar 13, celebrex , viagra , xalatan/xalacom , effexor/effexor xr , norvasc , prevnar/prevenar (7-valent), zyvox, sutent, premarin family , geodon/zeldox and detrol/detrol la . those products accounted for 60% of our total biopharmaceutical revenues in 2010. lipitor sales in 2010 were approximately $10.7 billion, accounting for approximately 18% of our total 2010 biopharmaceutical revenues. if the products referenced above or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected 21 table of contents side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. we expect we will lose exclusivity for lipitor in the u.s. in november 2011 and, as a result, will lose the substantial portion of our u.s. revenues from lipitor shortly thereafter. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such as certain types of cancer and multiple sclerosis. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact on pfizer of payers efforts to control access and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future. research and development investment the discovery and development of new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products are very important to the success of the company. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. additionally, pfizer research and development investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between the science and the market. the company may not be investing in the right technology platforms, leading therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a robust pipeline. additionally, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program. we recently announced a focus on fewer disease areas where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial success. there can be no assurance that this strategy will deliver the desired result which could affect profitability in the future. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products risks and uncertainties apply particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings should they occur. there also are many considerations that can affect marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. 22 table of contents post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase iv trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007 (the fdaaa) gives the fda enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. the fda exercise of its authority under the fdaaa could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. foreign regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. biotechnology products the aca has created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the u.s. following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic with a potential six month pediatric extension. such biosimilars could reference biotechnology products already approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone, genotropin , that referenced a biotechnology product approved under the u.s. federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. we expect that we could face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy once the drug receives approval. more detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. we try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. interest rate and foreign exchange risk 57% of our total 2010 revenues were derived from international operations, including 28% from the europe region and 18% from the japan/asia region. these international-based revenues, as well as our substantial international net assets, expose our revenues and earnings to foreign currency exchange rate changes. in addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the section entitled financial risk management in our 2010 financial 23 table of contents report. for additional details, see note 9-e to our consolidated financial statements, financial instruments: derivative financial instruments and hedging activities, in our 2010 financial report. those sections of our 2010 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to, our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. diversified segment our animal health unit may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions resulting in high unemployment rates and tight credit conditions. a high unemployment rate typically results in reduced traffic in veterinary clinics, negatively impacting our companion animal business. tight credit conditions limit the borrowing power of livestock producers, causing some to switch to lower-priced alternatives. pfizer nutrition may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions and the resulting effect on consumer spending. increased competition particularly in high growth emerging markets is also a risk for this business. the nutrition business may also experience significant financial impact associated with changes in national, regional, and international laws, rules and guidelines and their enforcement. our infant and young child nutrition products are subject to an array of rules and regulations enforced by government entities as well as treaties, conventions and guidelines from international authorities. changes to these requirements can significantly impact costs relating to taxes, tariffs, trade, labeling, marketing, manufacturing, and the overall availability of our products. the consumer healthcare unit may be impacted by economic volatility and generic competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal and/or reformulation of certain products (e.g. cough/cold products). global economic conditions the global economic downturn and the challenging global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity. due to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity position. however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions. in addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the u.s. and europe, affecting the performance of products such as lipitor , celebrex and lyrica . we believe that patients, experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments to reduce their costs. challenging economic conditions in the u.s. also have increased the number of patients in the medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. in addition, during 2010, we continued to experience pricing pressure as a result of the economic environment in europe, with government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain european countries. outsourcing outsourcing to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information 24 table of contents technology, manufacturing, clinical trials, non-clinical studies, research and development, safety and other areas could expose us to sub-optimal quality, missed deadlines or supply disruptions, all with potential negative implications for our results. interactions with healthcare professionals risks and uncertainties apply where the company provides something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations. difficulties of our wholesale distributors in 2010, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue, and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 34% of our total revenue. if one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing, including, but not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand or the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products, or the possibility that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected or that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network, could affect future results. cost and expense control/unusual events growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to successfully implement our announced plans regarding the company research and development function including the planned exit from the company sandwich u.k. site, subject to works council and union consultations, as well as our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction initiatives, including those related to the wyeth integration and to our research and development function. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that result from the enactment in august 2010 of the education, jobs and medicaid assistance act of 2010, and that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, environmental and tax litigations and claims, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. we also may fail to identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. 25 table of contents patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. see our business development initiatives strategy and recent transactions in our 2010 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities. information technology we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. the size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. failure to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of wyeth the success of our acquisition of wyeth will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from integrating the operations of pfizer and wyeth. if we are not able to successfully integrate the operations of the two legacy companies, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading financial risk management in our 2010 financial report.risk factors 27 risk factors dependence on key in-line products below. worldwide revenues from biopharmaceutical products in 2011 were $57.7 billion, a decrease of 1% compared to 2010, primarily due to the decrease of $4.7 billion in operational revenues from lipitor , effexor , protonix , xalatan , caduet , vfend , aromasin and zosyn , and lower alliance revenues for aricept , all due to loss of exclusivity in certain markets, and a reduction in revenues of $359 million due to the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (commonly referred to as the affordable care act, or aca). this decrease was partially offset by the solid performance of lyrica , the prevnar/prevenar franchise and enbrel , the inclusion of operational revenues from legacy king products of approximately $950 million, which favorably impacted biopharmaceutical revenues by 2%, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.7 billion, or 3%. geographically, in the u.s., revenues from biopharmaceutical products decreased 9% in 2011, compared to 2010, reflecting lower revenues from lipitor , protonix , effexor , zosyn , xalatan , vfend , caduet and aromasin , all due to loss of exclusivity, lower alliance revenues due to loss of exclusivity of aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in november 2010 and lower revenues from detrol/detrol la , as well as the reduction in revenues of $359 million in 2011 due to the aca. the impact of these adverse factors was partially offset by the strong performance of certain other biopharmaceutical products and the addition of u.s. revenues from legacy king products of approximately $904 million in 2011. for additional information regarding the impact of the aca on our revenues, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment u.s. healthcare legislation section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. in our international markets, revenues from biopharmaceutical products increased 5% in 2011, compared to 2010, reflecting the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 6% in 2011, partially offset by a net operational decrease. operationally, revenues were favorably impacted by increases in the prevenar franchise, lyrica , enbrel , celebrex and alliance revenues and unfavorably impacted by declines in lipitor , effexor , norvasc and xalatan/xalacom . international revenues from legacy king products were not significant to our international revenues in 2011. during 2011, international revenues from biopharmaceutical products represented 59% of total revenues from biopharmaceutical products, compared to 56% in 2010. for additional information, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income biopharmaceutical revenues section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. 4 biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions: lipitor , for the treatment of elevated ldl-cholesterol levels in the blood, lost u.s. exclusivity on november 30, 2011, and faces generic competition in the u.s. lipitor lost exclusivity in australia in february 2012; in japan in 2011; and in brazil, canada, spain and mexico in 2010; and it has lost exclusivity in nearly all emerging market countries. we do not expect that lipitor revenues in emerging markets will be materially impacted over the next several years by the loss of exclusivity. lipitor will have lost exclusivity in the majority of european markets by may 2012. see patents and intellectual property rights below for further information on lipitor . lyrica is indicated for the management of post-herpetic neuralgia, neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy, the management of fibromyalgia, and as adjunctive therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures in the u.s., and for neuropathic pain (peripheral and central), adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and general anxiety disorder in certain countries outside the u.s. prevnar 13/prevenar 13 is our 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of various syndromes of pneumococcal disease in infants and young children and in adults 50 years of age and older. prevnar 13/prevenar 13 for use in infants and young children has been launched in the u.s. for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the 13 serotypes in prevnar 13 and otitis media caused by the seven serotypes in prevnar , and in the european union (eu) and many other international markets for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease, otitis media and pneumococcal pneumonia caused by the vaccine serotypes. the launch of the prevnar 13/prevenar 13 pediatric indication has reduced our prevnar/prevenar (7-valent) revenues (see discussion below), and we expect this trend to continue. in addition, in 2011, we received approval of prevnar 13/prevenar 13 for use in adults 50 years of age and older in the u.s. for the prevention of pneumococcal pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the 13 serotypes in prevnar 13 , and in the eu for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the vaccine serotypes. prevenar 13 for use in adults 50 years of age and older also has been approved in many other international markets. we expect to commence commercial launches for the adult indication in 2012. we currently are conducting the community-acquired pneumonia immunization trial in adults (capita) to fulfill requirements in connection with the fda approval of the prevnar 13 adult indication under its accelerated approval program. capita is an efficacy trial involving subjects 65 years of age and older that is designed to evaluate whether prevnar 13 is effective in preventing the first episode of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes contained in the vaccine. we estimate that this event-driven trial will be completed in 2013. at its regular meeting held on february 22, 2012, the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) indicated that it will defer voting on a recommendation for the routine use of prevnar 13 in adults 50 years of age and older until the results of capita, as well as data on the impact of pediatric use of prevnar 13 on the disease burden and serotype distribution among adults, are available. we expect that the rate of uptake for the use of prevnar 13 in adults 50 years of age and older will be impacted by acip decision to defer voting on a recommendation for the routine use of prevnar 13 by that population. enbrel is our treatment for moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis, a type of arthritis affecting the spine. under our co-promotion agreement with amgen inc. (amgen), we and amgen co-promote enbrel in the u.s. and canada and share in the profits from enbrel sales in those countries, which we include in alliance revenues. our co-promotion agreement with amgen will expire in october 2013, and, subject to the terms of the agreement, we are entitled to a royalty stream for 36 months thereafter, which we expect will be significantly less than our current share of enbrel profits from u.s. and canadian sales. following the end of the royalty period, we will not be entitled to any further revenues from enbrel sales in the u.s. and canada. our exclusive rights to enbrel outside the u.s. and canada will not be affected by the expiration of the co-promotion agreement with amgen. 5 celebrex is for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis worldwide and for the management of acute pain in adults in the u.s. and certain markets in the eu. celebrex is supported by continued educational and promotional efforts highlighting its efficacy and safety profile for appropriate patients. viagra remains the leading treatment for erectile dysfunction and one of the world most recognized pharmaceutical brands after more than a decade. viagra began facing generic competition in certain markets, including spain and finland, in december 2009. norvasc , for treating hypertension, lost exclusivity in the u.s. and other major markets in 2007 and in canada in 2009. zyvox is the world best selling agent among those used to treat serious gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus-aureus. xalabrands consists of xalatan , a prostaglandin, which is a branded agent used to reduce elevated eye pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, and xalacom , a fixed combination of prostaglandin ( xalatan ) and beta blocker (timolol), available outside the u.s. xalatan lost exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2011. xalatan and xalacom lost exclusivity in 15 major european markets in january 2012. sutent is for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mrcc) and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gist) after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate. in may 2011, the fda approved sutent for the treatment of progressive, well-differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pnet) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. in the u.s., sutent is the most prescribed oral mrcc therapy, and more than 100,000 patients have been treated with sutent worldwide. geodon/zeldox, an atypical antipsychotic, is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of bipolar manic or mixed episodes, and as an adjunct to lithium or valproate for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder. geodon/zeldox is expected to lose exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2012. our premarin family of products remains the leading therapy to help women address moderate to severe menopausal symptoms. genotropin , one of the world leading human growth hormones, is used in children for the treatment of short stature with growth hormone deficiency, prader-willi syndrome, turner syndrome, small for gestational age syndrome, idiopathic short stature (in the u.s. only) and chronic renal insufficiency (outside the u.s. only), as well as in adults with growth hormone deficiency. genotropin is supported by a broad platform of innovative injection-delivery devices and patient support programs. detrol/detrol la , a muscarinic receptor antagonist, is one of the most prescribed branded medicines worldwide for overactive bladder . detrol la is an extended-release formulation taken once a day. detrol immediate release ( detrol ir ) will lose exclusivity in the u.s. in september 2012. vfend is a broad-spectrum agent for treating yeast and molds. vfend tablets lost exclusivity in the u.s. in february 2011. chantix/champix is an aid to smoking-cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age and older. we are continuing our educational and promotional efforts, which are focused on addressing the significant health consequences of smoking, highlighting the chantix benefit-risk proposition and emphasizing the importance of the physician-patient dialogue in helping patients quit smoking. 6 in july 2011, the u.s. prescribing information was revised to include clinical data showing that chantix is an effective aid to smoking-cessation treatment for smokers with stable cardiovascular disease (cvd) and mild-to-moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). the revised label also includes a warning/precaution advising smokers with cvd to inform their physician of any new or worsening symptoms of cardiovascular disease, and to seek emergency medical help if they experience any symptoms of a heart attack. this safety information was added at the fda request following an observation of a small numeric increase in certain cardiovascular events in patients treated with chantix versus those taking a placebo in a study of 700 smokers with stable cardiovascular disease. approval of the eu labeling, revised at the european medicines agency (ema s) request to include a similar cardiovascular-related warning/precaution, was received in late december 2011, with regulators reaffirming the positive benefit/risk profile of the medication. approval of the japan labeling, which includes a similar precaution, occurred in late october 2011. in december 2011, pfizer received a positive opinion from the ema committee for medical products for human use for changes to the champix eu label regarding schizophrenia data. benefix and refacto af / xyntha are hemophilia products using state of the art manufacturing that assist patients with a lifelong bleeding disorder. benefix is the only available recombinant factor ix product for the treatment of hemophilia b, while refacto af/xyntha are recombinant factor viii products for the treatment of hemophilia a. both products are indicated for the control and prevention of bleeding in patients with these disorders and in some countries also are indicated for prophylaxis in certain situations, such as surgery. effexor is an antidepressant for treating adult patients with major depressive disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder and panic disorder. effexor and effexor xr , an extended-release formulation, face generic competition in most markets, including the u.s., where effexor xr lost exclusivity on july 1, 2010. this generic competition has had a significant adverse impact on our revenues for effexor and effexor xr . zosyn/tazocin , our broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic, faces generic global competition. u.s. exclusivity was lost in september 2009. pristiq is approved for the treatment of major depressive disorder in the u.s. and in various other countries. pristiq has also been approved for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause in thailand, mexico, the philippines and ecuador. caduet is a single pill therapy combining lipitor and norvasc for the prevention of cardiovascular events. caduet lost u.s. exclusivity on november 30, 2011 and faces generic competition. revatio is for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. in the u.s., revatio tablet will lose exclusivity in september 2012, and revatio iv injection will lose exclusivity in may 2013. prevnar/prevenar ( 7-valent ) is our 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for preventing invasive, and, in certain international markets, non-invasive pneumococcal disease in infants and young children. many markets have transitioned from the use of prevnar/prevenar ( 7-valent ) to prevnar 13/prevenar 13 (see discussion above). aricept , discovered and developed by eisai co., ltd. (eisai), is the most commonly dispensed medicine to treat symptoms of alzheimer disease. we co-promote aricept with eisai in the u.s. and several other countries and have an exclusive license to sell aricept in certain other countries. revenues associated with this co-promotion are included in alliance revenues. we lost exclusivity for aricept 5mg and 10mg tablets in the u.s. in november 2010. we expect that the aricept 23mg tablet will have exclusivity in the u.s. until july 2013. aricept lost exclusivity in many of the major european markets in february 2012, and our established products business unit is introducing a second brand of donepezil hcl (the active ingredient in aricept ) in europe. aricept will have exclusivity in canada until december 2013, and our rights to aricept in japan will return to eisai in december 2012. 7 spiriva is indicated in the u.s. for the long-term, once-daily, maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with copd, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema, and for reducing copd exacerbations. we co-promote spiriva with boehringer ingelheim (bi) in the u.s. and selected countries on a worldwide basis. revenues associated with this co-promotion are included in alliance revenues. our collaboration with bi for spiriva will expire on a country-by-country basis between 2012 and 2016. as a result, we expect to experience a graduated decline in revenues from spiriva during that period. our collaboration with bi for spiriva will expire in the eu from 2012 and 2016, in 2014 in the u.s. and japan, and by 2016 in all other countries where the collaboration exists. xalkori, the first-ever therapy targeting anaplastic lymphoma kinase (alk), for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer that is alk-positive as detected by an fda-approved test, was approved by the fda in august 2011. inlyta was approved by the fda in january 2012 for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma after failure of one prior systemic therapy. embeda on february 23, 2011, we stopped distribution of our embeda product due to failed specification tolerances related to naltrexone degradation identified in post-manufacturing testing. on march 10, 2011, we initiated a voluntary recall to wholesale and retail customers of all embeda products. we are committed to returning this important product to the market as quickly as possible, once the stability issue is resolved. other products animal health our animal health business unit is the largest animal health business in the world. we discover, develop and sell products for the prevention and treatment of diseases in livestock and companion animals. revenues from animal health products were approximately $4.2 billion in 2011, an increase of 17% compared to 2010, reflecting higher operational revenues of 14% and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 3%. operational revenues from animal health products were favorably impacted by approximately $329 million, or 9%, due to the addition of revenues from legacy king animal health products. legacy pfizer products grew 7% primarily driven by improving market conditions and resulting increased demand for products across the livestock business, as well as deeper market penetration in emerging markets. this was partially offset by the adverse impact of required product divestitures in 2010 related to the acquisition of wyeth. we market vaccines, anti-infectives, anti-inflammatories, antiemetics and parasiticides, including the following products: startect is a novel dual-active parasiticide that delivers a broad spectrum control of parasitic worm infestation in sheep. improvac/improvest is a novel gonadotropin releasing factor (gnrf) product for swine that prevents boar taint. fostera pcv is a vaccine that protects pigs against porcine circovirus. palladia is a treatment of mast cell tumors, a common form of cancer that affects dogs; it works by killing tumor cells and by cutting off the blood supply to the tumor. convenia is an anti-infective for dogs and cats that delivers an assured full course of therapy from a single injection. cerenia is a selective nk-1 receptor antagonist for the treatment and prevention of vomiting in dogs and for the prevention of motion sickness. revolution/stronghold is a topically administered parasiticide for dogs and cats that controls a number of different parasites such as fleas and heartworm. 8 rimadyl relieves pain and inflammation associated with canine osteoarthritis and soft tissue orthopedic surgery. draxxin is an effective and convenient single dose anti-infective used to treat infections in cattle and swine. excede is an effective and convenient single-dose anti-infective used to treat infections in cattle and swine. excede offers a convenient two-dose regimen for horses. zulvac is a vaccine that protects cattle and sheep against bluetongue disease. bopriva is a novel gnrf vaccine which temporarily reduces undesirable bull behaviors such as fighting. the company is exploring strategic alternatives for animal health, which may include, among other things, a full or partial separation from pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. see general above. consumer healthcare our consumer healthcare business unit is the fifth-largest over-the-counter healthcare products business in the world and sells two of the ten largest selling over-the-counter healthcare brands ( centrum and advil ) in the world. consumer healthcare revenues totaled $3.1 billion for 2011, an increase of 10% compared to 2010, reflecting higher operational revenues of 8% and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%. the operational revenue increase in 2011 was primarily driven by increased sales of core brands including advil , caltrate and robitussin , as well as the temporary voluntary withdrawal of centrum in europe in the third quarter of 2010. the consumer healthcare business unit holds strong positions in various geographic markets, with its highest revenue volume in the u.s., canada, china, germany, italy, brazil and australia. major categories and product lines include: dietary supplements: centrum brands (including centrum , centrum silver , centrum men and women , centrum performance , centrum specialists , centrum cardio , and centrum kids ), caltrate , and pronutrient brands (including probiotic , omega-3 , and fruit and veggie ); pain management: advil brands (including advil , advil pm , advil liqui-gels , children advil , infant advil , and advil migraine) , and thermacare ; respiratory: robitussin , advil cold &amp; sinus , advil congestion relief , and dimetapp ; personal care: chapstick and preparation h. in december 2011 (which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2012 for our international operations), we completed our acquisition of the consumer healthcare business of ferrosan holding a/s, a danish company engaged in the sale of science-based consumer healthcare products, including dietary supplements and lifestyle products, primarily in the nordic region and the emerging markets of russia and central and eastern europe. nutrition pfizer nutrition is a leader in infant nutritionals in the markets in which we operate. we have a targeted geographic presence in key markets throughout asia, the middle east, europe and latin america. our largest markets include china, the philippines, the u.k., mexico and australia, and more than 80% of our revenues are in emerging markets. since it became part of pfizer in 2009, the nutrition business has grown in new and existing markets through innovation and developing and launching a number of new products. nutrition revenues totaled $2.1 billion in 2011, an increase of 15% compared to 2010, reflecting higher operational revenues of 11% and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 4%. the operational revenue increase was primarily due to increased demand for premium products, launches of new products and strength in china and the middle east. nutrition products include infant milk formula brands for newborns and toddlers: our gold line includes brands s-26 and/or sma (brand names vary slightly from country to country), and in 2011 we launched our super-premium illuma brand. we also commercialize specialty formulas such as s-26 gold hypoallergenic , s-26 gold anti-regurgitation , s-26 gold lactose-free , and s-26 picky eater. 9 the company is exploring strategic alternatives for nutrition, which may include, among other things, a full or partial separation from pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction. see general above. for additional information regarding the revenues of our animal health, consumer healthcare and nutrition business units, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income other product revenues section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. capsugel on august 1, 2011, we sold our capsugel business for approximately $2.4 billion in cash. results of capsugel, as well as the gain on its sale, are reflected in discontinued operations through the date of sale. capsugel was a business that had a diverse product line of hard gelatin capsules, and liquid, softgel, non-animal, and fish gelatin capsules, all for use in pharmaceutical and dietary supplement dosage delivery. for additional information, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 2d. acquisitions, divestitures, collaborative arrangements and equity method arrangements divestitures in our 2011 financial report. research and development innovation by our research and development operations is very important to our success. as a result, and also because we are predominantly a human health company, the vast majority of our research and development spending is associated with human health products, compounds and activities. our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. we spent $9.1 billion in 2011, $9.4 billion in 2010 and $7.8 billion in 2009 on research and development. biopharmaceutical r&amp;d we conduct research internally and also through contracts with third parties, through collaborations with universities and biotechnology companies and in cooperation with other pharmaceutical firms. we also seek out promising compounds and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, through collaborations, alliance and license agreements, acquisitions and other arrangements. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. according to the pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of america (phrma), out of 5,000-10,000 screened compounds, only 250 enter preclinical testing, five enter human clinical trials and one is approved by the fda. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take more than ten years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. candidates may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of research. as of year-end 2011, we had 262 projects in research and development, ranging from discovery through registration, of which 95 programs are in phase 1 through registration, with the remainder of the projects in pre-clinical development. at year-end 2011, our phase iii portfolio contained 22 programs. development of a single compound is often pursued as part of multiple different programs. while these new candidates may or may not eventually receive regulatory approval, new drug candidates entering clinical development phases are the foundation for future products. in addition to discovering and developing new products, our research operations seek to add value to our existing products by improving their effectiveness and by discovering new uses or indications for them. information concerning several of our drug candidates in development, as well as supplemental filings for existing products, is set forth in the analysis of the consolidated statements of income product developments biopharmaceutical section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. that information is incorporated by reference. 10 our competitors also devote substantial funds and resources to research and development. we also compete against numerous small biotechnology companies in developing potential drug candidates. the extent to which our competitors are successful in their research could result in erosion of the sales of our existing products and products in development, as well as unanticipated product obsolescence. we continue to closely evaluate our global research and development function and pursue strategies to improve innovation and overall productivity by prioritizing areas with the greatest scientific and commercial promise, utilizing appropriate risk/return profiles, and focusing on areas with the highest potential to deliver value in the near term and over time. to that end, our research primarily focuses on five high-priority areas that have a mix of small and large molecules immunology and inflammation; oncology; cardiovascular, metabolic and endocrine diseases; neuroscience and pain; and vaccines. in addition to reducing the number of disease areas of focus, we are realigning and reducing our research and development footprint, and outsourcing certain functions that do not drive competitive advantage for pfizer. as a result of these actions, we expect significant reductions in our annual research and development expenses, which are reflected in our 2012 financial guidance, and we expect to incur significant costs, which are also reflected in our 2012 financial guidance. for additional information, see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our strategy and our financial guidance for 2012 and costs and expenses restructuring charges and other costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives sections of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. for additional information regarding our r&amp;d operations, see the analysis of the consolidated statements of income research and development operations section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. international operations we have significant operations outside the united states. they are managed through the same segments as our u.s. operations, with our operations in emerging markets for human pharmaceutical products managed through the established products and emerging markets segment. revenues from operations outside the u.s. of $40.5 billion accounted for 60% of our total revenues in 2011. revenues exceeded $500 million in each of 18 countries outside the u.s. in 2011. the u.s. is our largest national market, comprising 40% of total revenues in 2011, 43% of total revenues in 2010 and 44% of total revenues in 2009. japan is our second-largest national market, with 9% of total revenues in 2011, 7.5% of total revenues in 2010 and 8.7% of total revenues in 2009. for a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see the table captioned geographic information, in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information in our 2011 financial report, and the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. those tables are incorporated by reference. our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. these include currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws and regulations on pricing, reimbursement, and access to our products. see government regulation and price constraints below for a discussion of these matters. depending on the direction of change relative to the u.s. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. in 2011, both revenues and net income were favorably impacted by foreign exchange in general, as foreign currency movements relative to the u.s. dollar increased our revenues and net income in many countries. while we cannot predict with certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on us, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments, depending upon market conditions. see the discussions in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2011 financial report. 11 marketing in our global biopharmaceutical businesses, we promote our products to healthcare providers and patients. through our marketing organizations, we explain the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products to healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, hospitals, pharmacy benefit managers (pbms), managed care organizations (mcos), employers and government agencies. we also market directly to consumers in the u.s. through direct-to-consumer advertising that communicates the approved uses, benefits and risks of our products while motivating people to have meaningful conversations with their doctors. in addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public on disease awareness, prevention and wellness, important public health issues, and our patient assistance programs. our biopharmaceutical businesses include five human health, customer-focused business units: primary care, specialty care, oncology, established products and emerging markets. our specialty care customer-focused business unit includes vaccines. we operate in customer-focused business units within our biopharmaceutical businesses to better meet the diverse needs of physicians, patients and our customers while maximizing value for our company and our shareholders. our u.s. primary care operations are structured into regional units in order to create a more flexible organization empowered to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. our structure aligns the sales, marketing, and medical functions to work closely to meet the needs of key customer groups while ensuring common coordination, focus and accountability across the organizations. our prescription pharmaceutical products are sold principally to wholesalers, but we also sell directly to retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies, and in the case of prevnar 13 , directly to individual provider offices in the u.s. we seek to gain access to healthcare authority, pbm and mco formularies (lists of recommended, approved, and/or reimbursed medicines and other products). we also work with mcos, pbms, employers and other appropriate healthcare providers to assist them with disease management, patient education and other tools that help their medical treatment routines. during 2011, pfizer revenues from our three largest biopharmaceutical wholesalers were as follows: mckesson, inc. 13% of our total revenues (and 30% of our total u.s. revenues); cardinal health, inc. 10% of our total revenues (and 26% of our total u.s. revenues); and amerisourcebergen corporation 9% of our total revenues (and 21% of our total u.s. revenues). sales to these wholesalers were concentrated in the biopharmaceutical businesses. apart from these instances, none of our operating segments is dependent on any one customer or group of related customers. each of our global animal health, consumer healthcare and nutrition business units utilizes its own sales and marketing organizations to promote its products, and each occasionally uses distributors in smaller markets. our animal health business unit advertising and promotions are generally targeted to veterinary healthcare professionals. animal health products are sold directly to veterinarians and livestock producers, as well as through distributors and retail outlets. our consumer healthcare business unit advertising and promotions are generally disseminated to consumers through television, print, digital and other media advertising, as well as through in-store promotion. consumer healthcare products are sold through a wide variety of channels, including distributors, pharmacies, retail chains and grocery and convenience stores. our nutrition business unit fully supports and adheres to the world health organization code and national codes on the marketing of breast milk substitutes. pfizer nutrition encourages breastfeeding as the best nutrition 12 for infants and provides important products for infants who are not exclusively breastfed. advertising and promotion of our nutrition products adhere to the aim and principles of the world health organization code as a minimum standard, consistent with national legislation. consequently, we do not advertise breast milk substitutes, but rather products intended for older children and adults, where permitted. such activities are aimed at healthcare professionals and consumers through media advertising (print, television, internet). our nutrition products are available to consumers in a wide variety of channels, including pharmacies, hospitals and food retailers (supermarkets, grocery stores and convenience stores). patents and intellectual property rights our products are sold around the world under brand-name, logo and certain product design trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to be of material importance. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and, in other countries, for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for fixed, but renewable, terms. we own or license a number of u.s. and foreign patents. these patents cover pharmaceutical and other products and their uses, pharmaceutical formulations, product manufacturing processes and intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing. patents for individual products extend for varying periods according to the date of patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage and the availability of legal remedies in the country. further, patent term extension may be available in many major countries to compensate for a regulatory delay in approval of the product. in the aggregate, our patent and related rights are of material importance to our businesses in the u.s. and most other countries. based on current product sales, and considering the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the u.s. basic product patent expires (including, where applicable, the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period and/or the granted patent term extension), are those for the drugs set forth in the table below. the basic patents for these products in other large markets may expire in the same, earlier or later years. drug u.s. basic product patent expiration year (1) geodon 2012 viagra 2012 detrol 2012 celebrex 2014 zyvox 2015 lyrica 2018 chantix 2020 sutent 2021 xalkori 2029 (1) with respect to the products in the table above, the corresponding european and japanese patent expiration dates are generally within one year before or after the u.s. dates indicated, except as follows: with respect to japan, the patent expiration year for celebrex is 2019, for zyvox is 2019, for lyrica is 2022, for champix is 2022, for sutent is 2024 and for xalkori (not currently approved) is 2025. for detrol , post-marketing surveillance in japan extends until 2014. 13 with respect to major european markets, the patent expiration year for xalkori (not currently approved) is 2025. for lyrica , regulatory exclusivity in europe extends until 2014. in some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to particular forms or compositions, to methods of manufacturing, or to use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. for example, in addition to the basic product patent covering viagra , it is also covered by a u.s. method of treatment patent which, including the six-month pediatric exclusivity period associated with revatio , which has the same active ingredient as viagra , expires in 2020. however, in some cases, such patents may not protect our drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent. we co-promote aricept with eisai, enbrel with amgen and spiriva with bi. see biopharmaceutical products biopharmaceutical selected product descriptions for a further discussion. we lost exclusivity for lipitor in the u.s. on november 30, 2011. pfizer announced in june 2008 that we entered into an agreement providing a license to ranbaxy to sell generic versions of lipitor and caduet in the u.s effective november 30, 2011. in addition, the agreement provides a license for ranbaxy to sell a generic version of lipitor beginning on varying dates in several additional countries. (see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies for a discussion of certain litigation relating to this agreement.) we also granted watson pharmaceuticals, inc. (watson) the exclusive right to sell the authorized generic version of lipitor in the u.s. for a period of five years, which commenced on november 30, 2011. as watson exclusive supplier, we manufacture and sell generic atorvastatin tablets to watson. we expect the entry of multi-source generic competition in the u.s., with attendant increased competitive pressures, following the end of ranbaxy 180-day generic exclusivity period in late may 2012. in markets outside the u.s., lipitor has lost exclusivity in certain countries and will lose exclusivity at various times in other countries. in europe, although the lipitor compound patent expired in november 2011, we have obtained pediatric extensions in the eu. accordingly, exclusivity in the majority of the major european markets has been extended for six months to may 2012. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2011 financial report regarding pending legal challenges to our lipitor patents. xalatan lost exclusivity in the u.s. in march 2011. xalatan and xalacom lost exclusivity in 15 major european markets in january 2012. effexor/effexor xr , zosyn , protonix , xalatan , norvasc and vfend tablets are examples of other pfizer products that currently face generic competition in the u.s. companies have filed applications with the fda seeking approval of products that we believe infringe our patents covering, among other products, lipitor , viagra , detrol/detrol la , lyrica , tygacil , sutent , rapamune , zyvox , avinza , epipen , torisel and embeda. wyeth, and a subsidiary of wyeth, are defendants in a lawsuit alleging that their refacto af and xyntha products infringe the patents of another company. we also have other patent rights covering additional products that have lesser revenues than most of the products set forth in the table above. of these, we also lost exclusivity in the u.s. for caduet in 2011 and in the u.s. and the eu for aromasin in 2011. the expiration of a basic product patent or loss of patent protection resulting from a legal challenge normally results in significant competition from generic products against the originally patented product and can result in a significant reduction in sales of that product in a very short period. in some cases, however, we can continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets; patents on uses for products; patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients; patents for special formulations of the product or delivery mechanisms; and conversion of the active ingredient to over-the-counter products. 14 our biotechnology products, including enbrel and the prevnar family, may face competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics ). such biosimilars would reference biotechnology products already approved under the u.s. public health service act. abbreviated legal pathways for the approval of biosimilars exist in certain international markets and since the passage of the aca, a framework for such approval exists in the u.s. see government regulation and price constraints biosimilars below. specifically, the aca provided innovator biologics with 12 years of exclusivity, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. after the exclusivity period expires, the fda could approve biosimilar versions of innovator biologics. the regulatory implementation of these provisions is ongoing and expected to take several years. however, the fda has begun to clarify its expectations for approval via the biosimilar pathway with the recent issuance of three draft guidance documents. among other things, these draft guidance documents confirm that the fda will allow biosimilar applicants to use a non-u.s. licensed comparator in certain studies to support a demonstration of biosimilarity to a u.s.-licensed reference product. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressures. concomitantly, a better-defined biosimilars approval pathway will assist us in pursuing approval of our own biosimilar products in the u.s. see item 1a. risk factors biotechnology products below. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years, and in japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in our genotropin product) pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. we may face litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. likewise, as we enter the biosimilars area and seek to launch products, patents may be asserted against us. one of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the u.s. is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. under international and u.s. free trade agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights has been improving. the world trade organization agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property (wto-trips) required participant countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products by 2005 with an extension until 2016 for least-developed nations. a number of countries have made improvements. we have experienced significant growth in our businesses in some of those nations, and our continued business expansion in other participant countries depends to a large degree on further patent protection improvement. competition our businesses are conducted in intensely competitive and often highly regulated markets. many of our human prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded drugs or generic drugs that treat similar diseases or indications. the principal forms of competition include efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost effectiveness. though the means of competition vary among product categories and business groups, demonstrating the value of our products is a critical factor for success in all of our principal businesses. our acquisition of wyeth in october 2009 created a broader, more diverse portfolio and pipeline with industry-leading positions in potential high-growth areas, further strengthened by new capabilities in biotechnology and vaccines. the addition of wyeth not only strengthened our presence in the united states and europe, but also enhances our abilities to provide emerging markets in asia, latin america, africa, the middle east and eastern europe/russia with high-quality, innovative medicines. 15 our competitors include other worldwide research-based drug companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer healthcare manufacturers. we compete with other companies that manufacture and sell products that treat similar diseases or indications as our major products. such competition affects our core product business, which is focused on applying innovative science to discover and market products that satisfy unmet medical needs and provide therapeutic improvements. our emphasis on innovation is underscored by our multi-billion-dollar investment in research and development, as well as our business development transactions over the past decade, resulting in a strong product pipeline. our investment in research does not stop with drug approval; we continue to invest in further understanding the value of our products for the conditions they treat, as well as potential new applications. we seek to protect the health and well-being of patients by striving to ensure that medically sound knowledge of the benefits and risks of our medicines is understood and communicated to patients, physicians and global health authorities. we also continue to enhance the organizational effectiveness of all of our biopharmaceutical functions, including coordinating support for our salespersons efforts to accurately and ethically launch and promote our products to our customers. operating conditions have become more challenging under the mounting global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment. we continue to take measures to evaluate, adapt and improve our organization and business practices to better meet customer and public needs. for instance, our u.s. primary care operations are structured into regional units in order to create a more flexible organization empowered to identify and address local market dynamics and customer needs. we have taken an industry-leading role in evolving our approaches to u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, interactions with, and payments to, healthcare professionals and medical education grants. we also continue to sponsor programs to address patient affordability and access barriers, as we strive to advance fundamental health system change through support for better healthcare solutions. while our animal health business unit is the leading animal health company with market positions throughout the world, many other companies offer competing products. altogether, there are hundreds of producers of animal health products throughout the world. the principal methods of competition vary somewhat depending on the particular product. they include product innovation, quality, price, service and effective promotion to veterinary professionals and livestock producers. our consumer healthcare business unit faces competition from over-the-counter business units in other major pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies, as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. our competitive position is affected by several factors, including the amount and effectiveness of our and our competitors promotional resources; customer acceptance; product quality; our and our competitors introduction of new products, ingredients, claims, dosage forms, or other forms of innovation; and pricing, regulatory and legislative matters (e.g., product labeling, patient access, prescription to over-the-counter switches, etc.). our nutrition business unit competes with multinational companies in the pharmaceutical and food industries, as well as numerous smaller local and regional companies manufacturing infant nutrition products. our competitive position is affected by several factors, particularly the amount of resources deployed to develop, enhance and promote products; the rapid pace of product and packaging innovation in the category, including scientific and technological advances; overall product quality; the effectiveness of our promotional efforts; and product launch campaigns. all of these factors drive brand recommendations from healthcare professionals and overall customer preference for our product brands. managed care organizations the growth of mcos in the u.s. has been a major factor in the competitive makeup of the healthcare marketplace. approximately 250 million people in the u.s. now participate in some form of managed care. 16 because of the size of the patient population covered by mcos, the marketing of prescription drugs to them and the pbms that serve many of those organizations continues to grow in importance. mcos can include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health maintenance organizations, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. the purchasing power of mcos has increased in recent years due to the growing numbers of patients enrolled in mcos. at the same time, those organizations have been consolidating into fewer, even larger entities. this consolidation enhances both their purchasing strength and importance to us. the growth of mcos has increased pressure on drug prices. one objective of mcos is to contain and, where possible, reduce healthcare expenditures. mcos typically use formularies, volume purchases and long-term contracts to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical providers. also, mcos use their purchasing power and their ability to influence market share and volume of prescription drugs to bargain for lower supplier prices. they also emphasize primary and preventive care, out-patient treatment and procedures performed at doctors offices and clinics. hospitalization and surgery, typically the most expensive forms of treatment, are carefully managed. since the use of certain drugs can reduce the need for hospitalization, professional therapy, or even surgery, such drugs can become favored first-line treatments for certain diseases. as discussed above in marketing , mcos and pbms typically develop formularies, which are selections of medicines available to members that are tiered according to co-pay amounts. formularies are typically based on the prices and therapeutic benefits, or a combination of the two, of the available products. due to their generally lower cost, generic medicines typically are placed in lowest cost tiers. the breadth of the products covered by formularies can vary considerably from one mco to another and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical problems. mcos use a variety of means to encourage patients use of products listed on their formularies. exclusion of a product from a formulary or other mco-implemented restriction can significantly impact drug usage in the mco patient population. consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to gain access to formularies for their products. unique product features, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use, or fewer side effects, are generally beneficial to achieving access to formularies. however, lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products included on most mco formularies. the impact of mcos on drug prices and volumes has increased as a result of their role in negotiating on behalf of medicare beneficiaries in connection with the medicare outpatient prescription drug benefit, medicare part d, which took effect january 1, 2006. mcos and pbms negotiate on behalf of the federal government as prescription drug plans (pdps). we have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major products that are used by the senior population included on the formularies of the medicare pdps in 2011. generic products one of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, especially a small molecule product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period. several such competitors make a regular practice of challenging our product patents before their expiration. generic competitors operate without large research and development expenses, as well as without costs of conveying medical information about products to the medical community, all of which we are required to do. in addition, the fda approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator product. generic products need only demonstrate a level of availability in the body equivalent to that of the innovator product. this means that generic competitors can market a competing version of our product after the expiration or loss of our patent and often charge much less. 17 in addition, our patent-protected products can face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors branded products that lose their market exclusivity. as noted above, mcos that focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics over brand-name drugs. many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs, including medicaid in the u.s. laws in the u.s. generally allow, and in some cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be therapeutically equivalent to brand-name drugs. the substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it. in the u.s., pfizer greenstone subsidiary and pfizer injectables sell generic versions of pfizer s, as well as certain competitors , solid oral dose and sterile injectable pharmaceutical products, respectively, upon loss of exclusivity, as appropriate. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. in general, these materials are available from multiple sources. no serious shortages or delays were encountered in 2011, and none are expected in 2012. however, select materials have, from time to time, increased in price due to short-term imbalances between supply and demand. we have successfully secured the materials necessary to meet our requirements in these circumstances but generally at higher prices than those historically paid. government regulation and price constraints in the united states general. pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies in the countries in which they do business. of particular importance in the u.s. is the fda. it has jurisdiction over our biopharmaceutical products and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of these products. the fda also regulates our consumer healthcare and animal health products. the u.s. department of agriculture and the u.s. environmental protection agency also regulate some of our products. in addition, many of our activities are subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, such as the department of health and human services (hhs), the federal trade commission (ftc) (which also has the authority to regulate the advertising of consumer healthcare products, including over-the-counter drugs and dietary supplements), the department of justice (doj) and the sec. individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. we are subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these various regulatory bodies. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2011 financial report. such actions may involve product recalls, seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. healthcare reform. in march 2010, the aca was enacted in the u.s. the provisions of the aca are effective on various dates. the principal provisions affecting the biopharmaceutical industry include: an increase, from 15.1% to 23.1%, in the minimum rebate on branded prescription drugs sold to medicaid beneficiaries (effective january 1, 2010); extension of medicaid prescription drug rebates to drugs dispensed to enrollees in certain medicaid managed care organizations (effective march 23, 2010); expansion of the types of institutions eligible for the section 340b discounts for outpatient drugs provided to hospitals meeting the qualification criteria under section 340b of the public health service act of 1944 (effective january 1, 2010); discounts on branded prescription drug sales to medicare part d participants who are in the medicare coverage gap, also known as the doughnut hole (effective january 1, 2011); and 18 a fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for u.s. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs (effective january 1, 2011, with the total fee to be paid each year by the pharmaceutical industry increasing annually through 2018). the aca is estimated to result in the coverage of 32 million previously uninsured individuals. approximately half of this will occur through an expansion of the medicaid program. effective in 2014, individuals with incomes below 133% of the federal poverty level (fpl) will be eligible for medicaid. the remainder will be covered with private sector coverage either through their employers or new state-based health insurance exchanges. with limited exceptions, individuals who fail to purchase health insurance will pay a penalty. individuals with incomes between 100%-400% of the fpl will be eligible for subsidies to help pay for coverage. expanding insurance coverage and other costs are expected to represent a relatively modest gain to overall pharmaceutical sales as the newly insured are principally young and relatively healthy. at the same time, the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs associated with the aca are a significant cost to the industry. the aca created the independent payment advisory board (ipab), a 15-member panel appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the senate. the ipab is charged with developing proposals to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending in the event that the actual medicare per capita growth rate exceeds a specified target. unless congress acts to alter the proposals, the proposals will be automatically implemented. however, the ipab cannot directly ration care, raise premiums, increase cost sharing, or otherwise restrict benefits or modify eligibility. if the ipab fails to act, the secretary of hhs is directed to prepare such proposals. the ipab is prohibited by statute from making payment reductions to certain sectors such as hospitals and home health agencies, which increases the risk that the ipab will propose to limit access to pharmaceutical treatments or mandate price controls for our products. the aca also established the patient centered outcomes research institute (pcori), a federally-funded, private, non-profit corporation empowered to fund and disseminate comparative effectiveness research (cer) and build infrastructure for improved outcomes analysis. pcori has no authority to impose formulary changes directly in government-funded health programs. we expect that due to the pcori, as well as the underlying market demand for data-driven differentiation, cer studies will have growing influence on access. overseeing and managing the pcori is an advisory board drawn from multiple and varied stakeholder organizations, including the pharmaceutical industry. pfizer chief medical officer currently serves as the industry representative on the advisory board. the aca specifies certain benefits and services that must be covered for health insurers to qualify to participate in the state insurance exchanges. prescription drugs are among these essential benefits in the law. regulators are expected to provide guidance to states on the types of benefits and services that must be covered. in 2012, the u.s. supreme court is to review certain provisions of the aca, including: (1) the constitutionality of the aca individual mandate that requires most americans to buy health insurance starting in 2014; (2) the severability of the individual mandate from the other provisions of the aca, if the individual mandate is struck down; (3) the aca medicaid expansion, which would require each state to expand its program or lose all federal medicaid funds; and (4) the applicability of a federal tax law, the anti-injunction act, to the lawsuits brought on the individual mandate, which could bar review of that aca provision until at least 2014. the court is scheduled to hear oral arguments in late march and a decision is likely in june. changes in marketing activity disclosure . the aca expands the government investigative and enforcement authority and increases the penalties for fraud and abuse, including amendments to both the false claims act and the anti-kickback statute to make it easier to bring suit under these statutes. the aca also allocates additional resources and tools for the government to police healthcare fraud, with expanded subpoena power for hhs, additional funding to investigate fraud and abuse, and expanded use of recovery audit contractors for enforcement. 19 starting in 2012, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to record any transfers of value made to doctors and teaching hospitals and to disclose such data to hhs, with the initial disclosure to hhs due in 2013. in addition to civil penalties for failure to report transfers of value to physicians or teaching hospitals, there will be criminal penalties if a manufacturer intentionally makes false statements in such reports. further, the increased access to such data by fraud and abuse investigators could potentially raise the risk of liability for improper payments under the false claims act. pfizer already records and makes public these types of transfers and expects to be prepared to report the information in the format requested by hhs. this national payment transparency effort and industry commitment to uphold voluntary codes of conduct (the updated phrma code on interactions with healthcare professionals , phrma guiding principles direct to consumer advertisements about prescription medicines, etc.) will complement existing laws and regulations to help ensure ethical collaboration and truthful product communications. these efforts are in place to help ensure responsible marketing approaches and to address concerns. medicare. medicare part d went into effect on january 1, 2006. elderly and disabled beneficiaries have access to the medicare drug benefit through private plans approved by the federal government. beneficiaries with low incomes and modest assets are eligible for assistance with medicare part d plan premiums and cost sharing. nationally, the share of such beneficiaries with comprehensive drug coverage increased from 59% in 2005 to over 90% in 2010. medicare beneficiaries report high levels of satisfaction, with an overwhelming majority saying the program works well. in addition, the program costs less than originally expected. the aca made some important changes to the drug benefit in particular, phasing out the coverage gap by 2020. prior to the aca, beneficiaries who reached a certain level of spending on prescription medications (the medicare part d coverage gap or doughnut hole ) had to pay 100% of the cost of their drugs until personal out-of-pocket spending reached a level qualifying them for catastrophic coverage. the medicare part d coverage gap discount program uses public and private funding to relieve the financial burden facing beneficiaries who fall into this coverage gap. beginning in 2011, branded pharmaceutical companies paid 50% of the cost of the branded drugs in the gap and the government paid 7% of the cost of the generic drugs in the gap. as a result, rather than paying 100% of the total cost of their drugs when they reach the coverage gap, enrollees paid 50% of the total cost of branded drugs and 93% of the total cost of generic drugs. in 2012, the branded discount will remain 50%, but the generic discount will increase to 14%. by 2020, enrollees will pay only 25% of the cost of their branded and generic drugs in the gap as the share covered by the government will increase. biosimilars. the aca also created a framework for the approval of follow-on biologics, or biosimilars, following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. the fda is responsible for implementation of the legislation, which will require the fda to address such key topics as the type and extent of data needed to establish biosimilarity; the data required to achieve interchangeability compared to biosimilarity; the naming of biosimilars; the implications of having or not having unique names; the tracking and tracing of adverse events; and the acceptability of data from an ex-u.s. licensed reference product comparator to demonstrate biosimilarity and/or interchangeability. the fda has begun to address some of these issues with its recent release of three draft guidance documents. specifically, the fda has clarified that biosimilar applicants may use a non-u.s. licensed comparator in certain studies to support a demonstration of biosimilarity to a u.s.-licensed reference product. pfizer is developing biosimilar medicines. leveraging our expertise in biologics, and our regulatory, commercial, and manufacturing strengths, we will seek to provide high-quality, safe and effective biosimilars that provide patients and prescribers with additional treatment options and expand access by offering high-quality, more affordable alternatives for biologic medicines. the budget proposal submitted to congress by president obama in february 2012 includes a provision that would reduce the base exclusivity period for a biologics product from 12 years to seven years. there is no corresponding pending bill designed to amend the aca to alter the biologics provisions. 20 medicaid and related matters. federal law requires branded pharmaceutical companies to provide rebates to state medicaid agencies. the aca brought about major changes in the medicaid program. collectively, the measures (i) increased federal rebates paid by manufacturers on branded drugs within the traditional medicaid program from 15.1% to 23.1%, and for generic drugs from 11% to 13% of average manufacturer price (amp); (ii) expanded medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs provided through managed medicaid plans; and (iii) changed the rebate rates for line extensions or new formulations of solid oral dosage form drugs. post-implementation of aca, the centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms) withdrew its former, detailed amp-calculation rules, and new cms amp guidance is still pending publication (now expected in 2012). the law also creates a federal upper limit under the medicaid program for generic drugs at 175% of amp. in addition, the law expanded the types of entities eligible for the section 340b discounts for outpatient drugs that began in 2010. the majority of states use preferred drug lists to restrict access to certain medicines to medicaid beneficiaries. restrictions exist for some pfizer products in certain states. access in the medicaid managed care program is typically determined by the health plans providing coverage for medicaid recipients contracting for the provision of services in the state. given states current and potential ongoing fiscal crises, a growing number of states are considering a variety of cost-control strategies, including capitated managed care plans that typically contain cost by restricting access to certain treatments. the aca expands medicaid coverage in 2014. it is expected that 16 million additional people will be enrolled in medicaid by 2019. we also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of pharmaceutical products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. see the discussion regarding rebates in the analysis of the consolidated statement of income revenues overview section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report and in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 1g. significant accounting policies revenues in our 2011 financial report, which discussions are incorporated by reference. pdufa reauthorization. the prescription drug user fee act (pdufa) was first enacted in 1992 to provide the fda with additional resources to speed the review of important new medicines. prior to pdufa, inadequate funding of the fda drug review process led to a backlog of application reviews and lengthy review times. pdufa revolutionized the review process for new drugs and biologics without compromising high approval standards for demonstration of product safety, quality and efficacy. pdufa sunsets every five years and must be reauthorized by congress. pdufa iv will expire in september 2012. the proposed pdufa v reauthorization is the product of months of stakeholder discussion between the fda, industry, patient groups and consumers. the pdufa v agreement focuses on three areas: modernizing regulatory science, review process enhancements, and strengthening post-market safety surveillance, with the goal of supporting agency scientific capabilities and improving process efficiencies. pfizer supports the pdufa v reauthorization in order to foster an innovation-supportive regulatory environment and to ensure that the fda is properly equipped to evaluate important new medicines in a timely and predictable fashion. importation of drugs. there continue to be legislative proposals to amend u.s. law to allow the importation into the u.s. of prescription drugs from outside the u.s., which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries. in addition to well-documented safety concerns, such as the increased risk of counterfeit products entering the supply chain, such importation could impact pharmaceutical prices in the u.s. while the 2003 medicare modernization act (2003 mma) maintains a prohibition on such imports, it would allow importation from canada if the secretary of hhs certifies that such importation is safe and would result in savings to consumers. before the 2003 mma, federal law would have permitted importation of medicines into the u.s. from a considerably larger group of developed countries, provided the secretary of hhs made the same safety and cost-savings certifications. as part of the debate on the aca, two senate proposals that would have restored the broader number of countries from which importation would be permissible were introduced but were ultimately defeated. 21 the secretaries of hhs in the clinton, george w. bush, and obama administrations have all declined to certify that importation of medicines is safe and saves money. if the secretary of hhs changes its position, an increase in cross-border trade in medicines subject to foreign price controls in other countries could occur, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in december 2004, hhs and the department of commerce issued reports on drug importation and foreign price controls. the hhs report noted that it would be extraordinarily difficult to ensure that drugs personally imported by individual consumers could meet the standards of safety that would support certifying such importation as safe. while the report also concluded that the u.s. could establish a feasible basis for commercial drug importation, such a change in the law would require new legal authorities, substantial additional resources and significant restrictions on the types of drugs that could be imported. the report also noted that the total savings to be expected from such a commercial importation regime would be relatively small 1% or 2% of total drug spending in the u.s. budget control act of 2011 . in august 2011, the federal budget control act of 2011 (the act) was enacted in the u.s. the act includes provisions to raise the u.s. treasury department borrowing limit, known as the debt ceiling, and provisions to reduce the federal deficit by $2.4 trillion between 2012 and 2021. deficit-reduction targets include $900 billion of discretionary spending reductions associated with hhs and various agencies charged with national security, but those discretionary spending reductions do not include programs such as medicare and medicaid or direct changes to pharmaceutical pricing, rebates or discounts. a joint select committee of congress (the committee) was appointed to identify the remaining $1.5 trillion of deficit reductions by november 23, 2011, but no recommendations were made by the committee prior to the deadline. as a result, the office of management and budget (omb) is now responsible for identifying the remaining $1.5 trillion of deficit reductions, which will be divided evenly between defense and non-defense spending. under this omb fallback review process, social security, medicaid, veteran benefits and certain other spending categories are excluded from consideration, but reductions in payments to medicare providers may be made, although any such reductions are prohibited by law from exceeding 2%. additionally, certain payments to medicare part d plans, such as low-income subsidy payments, are exempt from reduction. while we do not know the specific nature of the spending reductions under the act that will affect medicare, we do not expect that those reductions will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. however, any significant spending reductions affecting medicare, medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit-reduction effort, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. outside the united states we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe, canada and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. europe. the approval of new drugs across the eu may be achieved using the mutual recognition procedure/decentralized procedure or eu commission/ema centralized procedure. these procedures apply in the eu member states, plus the european economic area countries, norway and iceland. the use of these procedures generally provides a more rapid and consistent approval process across the member states than was the case when the approval processes were operating independently within each country. since the eu does not have jurisdiction over patient reimbursement or pricing matters in its member states, we continue to work with individual countries on such matters across the region. 22 the world economy in 2011 faced renewed challenges as a result of recent financial conditions and, in particular, increased uncertainty around the solvency of governments. as a result, global growth has slowed. one of the consequences of the economic downturn for almost all world economies has been an increase in public debt as a proportion of gross domestic product arising from increased government spending and reduced tax receipts. for many developed economies, particularly in europe, this exacerbated existing fiscal imbalances and has created doubt in investment markets about the sustainability of public debt levels in a number of european countries, further raising the cost of borrowing, with the result that financial support from the eu and the international monetary fund has been necessary in the cases of greece, portugal and ireland. stringent austerity measures have been implemented in most european countries with the aim of closing the fiscal gap, in particular in spain and italy. under these macroeconomic conditions, pfizer continues to face widespread downward pressures on international pricing and reimbursement, particularly in developed european markets with a large government share of pharmaceutical spending. specific pricing pressures in 2011 included measures to reduce pharmaceutical prices and expenditure in italy, spain, greece, ireland and portugal. formal processes of international reference pricing (irp) between eu countries add to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries. price variations have also arisen from exchange rate fluctuations between the euro and other european currencies, and these are also exacerbated by international reference pricing systems. the downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to intensify as a result of reforms to irp policies, emergency measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some european countries and ongoing exchange rate turbulence. on january 26, 2007, the new eu regulation on medicines for pediatric use became effective. this introduced new obligations on pharmaceutical companies to conduct research on their medicines for children and, subject to various conditions, offered the possibility of incentives for so doing, including exclusivity extensions. the aim of this regulation is to improve the health of children in the eu through high quality research, stimulating the development of new medicines, creating infrastructure to enable authorized use and improving the information on medicines for children. a pediatric committee (pdco) was created within the ema to provide scientific opinions and input on development plans for medicines for use with children. in line with this regulation, pfizer is conducting many pediatric research programs for its in-line and development products, and completed its first ema-approved pediatric investigation plan (for lipitor ) in 2009. on december 31, 2010, the eu published new pharmacovigilance legislation which had been adopted by the council and parliament of the eu. the legislation is required to be implemented by mid-2012 and entails many new and revised requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance, as well as the codification of various existing requirements previously set out in guidance. key changes include the possibility for regulators to require pharmaceutical companies to conduct post-authorization efficacy studies, both at the time of approval and at any time afterwards in light of scientific developments. there are also additional requirements to include statements in product labeling with regard to adverse drug reaction reporting and additional monitoring of products. there also is expected to be significantly greater transparency of the safety review process. the new legislation forms part of a three-part pharmaceutical package to amend the existing eu pharmaceutical legislation. the second part, adopted on may 27, 2011, is a directive aimed at preventing falsified medicines from entering into the legal supply chain. notably, the directive imposes new obligations on all parties in the distribution chain, including importers, traders, manufacturers, distributors, and any operator who repackages a product. this is required to be implemented by january 2013. the third part of the package concerns the provision of information on prescription medicines to patients, which has reached a reasonably advanced stage, but has proved controversial to date and the outcome for which is more uncertain. at the end of the third quarter of 2010, the commissioner for industry and entrepreneurship of the european commission announced the launch of a process on corporate responsibility in the pharmaceutical 23 industry, the impact of which is yet to be determined through ongoing working committees. the process includes three independent platforms: (i) transparency and ethics in the sector; (ii) access to medicines in africa; and (iii) access to medicines in europe in the context of pricing and reimbursement. the platform on access to medicines in europe will focus on enhancing collaboration among eu member states and relevant stakeholders, in order to find common non-regulatory approaches to ensure timely and equitable access to medicines . canada . health canada (hc) is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in canada. the upcoming legislative and regulatory modernization (lrm) is the most significant drug regulatory system reform in canada in over 50 years and is expected to overhaul canada food and drugs act and regulations. the lrm supports a lifecycle regulatory approach and is focused on strengthening evidence-based decision making, good regulatory planning, licensing, post-licensing, accountability, authority and enforcement. through this framework, hc intends to improve the market authorization process and implement necessary regulatory frameworks. in october 2010, hc accelerated its modernization efforts. this included the proposed regulatory pathways for orphan drugs (harmonized with u.s./eu regulations) and for biosimilars referred to as subsequent entry biologics (sebs). this would formalize into regulations hc guidance document, which provided for approval of sebs in 2009. furthermore, lrm is to entail increased regulatory oversight throughout the drug lifecycle to continually assess the benefit-risk balance. following an extensive technical consultation process, hc intends to propose a first set of regulatory amendments around the third quarter of 2012. the whole lrm process is expected to take place over a period of three years. introductory non-excessive prices and price increases are controlled by the federal patented medicines prices review board. however, reimbursement is under provincial jurisdiction. as provinces continue to face budget pressure from growing healthcare expenditures, many provincial governments have developed pricing and purchasing strategies (including product listing agreements and a pan-canadian purchasing alliance initiative), to obtain better drug prices. the private sector is also attempting to exert its negotiating power on drug manufacturers. the 2004 federal-provincial-territorial (fpt) health accord that sets out the canada health transfers payment to provinces plus commitments on health policy initiatives expires on march 31, 2014. renegotiation will be influenced by the challenging fiscal positions of all fpt governments, which could increase hurdles for access to newer innovative therapies. canada intellectual property regime for drugs, which provides some level of patent protection and data exclusivity, can be further enhanced to encourage innovation through the canada/eu comprehensive economic &amp; trade agreement. the federal government also has jurisdiction over international trade and therefore over the issue of cross-border trade in pharmaceuticals and internet pharmacies. asia. the regulatory environment in asia presents multiple issues for companies trying to achieve simultaneous global development and registration (i.e., marketing products at the same time as in the u.s., europe, canada and elsewhere). while each country in asia has its unique regulatory concerns, there are a number of regulatory issues that are common among the majority of countries in asia. for example, with the exception of japan, health authorities in asia generally require marketing approval by a recognized regulatory authority (e.g., the u.s. fda) before they begin to conduct their application review process and/or issue their final approval. proof of reference country approval is usually satisfied by submitting a certificate of pharmaceutical product, a legal document that is issued by the competent health authority certifying that the company product has satisfied its country registration requirements and manufacturing standards. often, this requirement delays marketing authorization in asia by 12-15 months following market authorization in the u.s. and europe. another common regulatory issue in asia is the requirement for local clinical data in the country population in order to receive final marketing approval. each of japan, china, korea, taiwan and india has regulations in some form that require clinical studies in the country (e.g., china requires a prescribed number of chinese patients regardless of the product, therapeutic area or disease population). although some agencies have 24 shown flexibility based on scientific rationale related to ethnicity assessments, it is not uncommon for companies to be required to duplicate costly clinical trials in asia pursuant to these regulations. this can further add to marketing approval delays compared to the u.s. and europe. in japan, the government is aiming to reduce the drug lag (i.e., drugs are launched in japan years after the eu and u.s. markets) in a two-pronged approach: reducing regulatory agency review times and establishing a new pilot pricing premium. the pilot pricing premium provides a financial incentive for drug development in japan. while economic conditions and government debt levels continue to put pressure on healthcare costs resulting in cost containment (particularly in the off-patent sector) the recent extension of the pilot pricing premium for innovative products is encouraging. in korea, the national health insurance deficit prompted the government to make significant price cuts in the off-patent sector at the end of 2011. we continue to work with a committee established by the government to improve the pricing system for innovative new drugs. the controlling regulatory agency in china is the state food and drug administration (sfda). sfda scope of responsibilities is similar to that of the fda or ema. two key agencies within sfda are the center for drug evaluation (cde) and the national institute for the control of pharmaceutical and biological products (nicpbp). the cde, which is analogous to the fda center for drug evaluation and research, is primarily responsible for the technical review of product applications, including clinical trial applications and new drug applications, and drafting technical guidance documents. nicpbp is the quality testing arm of sfda, legally responsible for the testing of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices nationwide. china regulatory system is unique in many ways, and its drug development and registration requirements are not always consistent with international standards. as a result, it is not uncommon to see treatments entering the market in china two to four years after first marketing in the u.s. and europe. intellectual property . while the global intellectual property environment has improved following wto-trips, our future business growth depends on further progress in intellectual property protection. in emerging market countries in particular, governments have used intellectual property policies as a tool for reducing the price of imported medicines, as well as to protect their national pharmaceutical industries. there is considerable political pressure to weaken existing intellectual property protection and resist implementation of any further protection, which has led to policies such as higher standards and more difficult procedures for patenting biopharmaceutical inventions, restrictions on patenting certain types of inventions (e.g., new medical treatment methods) and failure to implement effective regulatory data protection. our industry advocacy efforts focus on seeking a more balanced business environment for foreign manufacturers. in china, the intellectual property environment has improved, although effective enforcement and adequate legal remedies remain areas of concern. the government has taken steps to protect intellectual property rights in conformity with world trade organization (wto) provisions, and several companies, including pfizer, have established research and development centers in china due to increased confidence in china intellectual property environment. despite this, china remained on the u.s. department of commerce priority watch list for 2011. a framework exists for protecting patents for 20 years, but enforcement mechanisms are often lacking or inconsistent, such as the absence of effective patent linkage mechanisms and preliminary injunctions, impractical evidentiary burdens, and heightened sufficiency standards used to invalidate patents at the enforcement stage. additionally, true regulatory data protection remains elusive in china. the center for drug evaluation provides protection against reliance on data by generic applicants for a fixed period of time. following its wto accession in 2001, china revised its laws to incorporate concepts from the wto-trips, and china relevant laws establish a six-year period of protection against unfair commercial use of undisclosed test and other data of products containing a new chemical ingredient. however, the current regulations are ambiguous as to how data protection is implemented in practice in china. for example, certain key concepts such as new chemical ingredient and unfair commercial use are undefined. 25 in brazil and other latin american countries, backlogs at patent agencies have presented challenges for the protection of certain products. the lack of regulatory data protection and difficulties in protecting certain types of inventions, such as new medical uses of drug products, may limit the commercial lifespan of some pharmaceutical products. in india, limited standards for patentability of pharmaceutical products have made it difficult to protect many of our inventions. india and other countries such as israel maintain a system of pre-grant patent oppositions that delay the granting of patents and add an additional challenge in our ability to protect our products through patents. in korea, the laws and regulations for the patent-regulatory approval linkage system have now been finalized, and we are waiting for the effective date of implementation as part of the united states-korea free trade agreement. the korean patent-regulatory approval linkage system includes biologics. environmental law compliance most of our operations are affected by national, state and/or local environmental laws. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws. we also are cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. commitments and contingencies in our 2011 financial report. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2011 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activity as follows: environment-related capital expenditures $34 million; and other environment-related expenses $145 million. while we cannot predict with certainty future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with pending and potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, we have no reason to believe they will have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position. we have reviewed the potential for physical risks to our facilities and supply chain that may be exacerbated by climate change and have concluded that, because of our facility locations and our existing distribution networks, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term. tax matters the discussion of tax-related matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. taxes on income in our 2011 financial report, is incorporated by reference. employees in our innovation-intensive business, our employees are vital to our success. we believe we have good relationships with our employees. as of december 31, 2011, we employed approximately 103,700 people in our operations throughout the world. 26 item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. our disclosure and analysis in the 2011 form 10-k and in our 2011 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as oral forward-looking statements. such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast , goal , objective and other words or terms of similar meaning, or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, business plans or prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic review, capital allocation, and share-repurchase and dividend-rate plans. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, share-repurchase and dividend-rate plans, financial results and government regulation. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. u.s. healthcare reform/healthcare legislation as mentioned above, the aca was enacted by congress in march 2010 and its provisions are effective on various dates. we expect that the rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs over time will have a significant effect on our expenses and profitability in the future. see the discussion under the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our operating environment u.s. healthcare legislation section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report and in item 1. business under the caption government regulation and price constraints . furthermore, the ipab created by the aca, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in medicare spending, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. moreover, expanded government investigative authority may increase the costs of compliance with new regulations and programs. we also face the uncertainties that might result from any modification, repeal or invalidation of any of the provisions of the aca. 27 pricing pressures, government regulation and managed care trends u.s. and foreign governmental regulations mandating price controls and limitations on patient access to our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. in the u.s., many of our biopharmaceutical products are subject to increasing pricing pressures. such pressures have increased as a result of the 2003 mma due to the enhanced purchasing power of the private sector plans that negotiate on behalf of medicare beneficiaries. in addition, if the 2003 mma or the aca were amended to impose direct governmental price controls and access restrictions, it would have a significant adverse impact on our business. furthermore, mcos, as well as medicaid and other government agencies, continue to seek price discounts. some states have implemented, and other states are considering, price controls or patient access constraints under the medicaid program, and some states are considering price-control regimes that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not medicaid-eligible. other matters also could be the subject of u.s. federal or state legislative or regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, including changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs from outside the u.s. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries, restrictions on u.s. direct-to-consumer advertising, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. the prohibition on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of erectile dysfunction medications by the medicaid program, which became effective january 1, 2006, and the similar federal funding prohibition for the medicare part d program, which became effective january 1, 2007, has had an adverse effect on our business. any prohibitions on the use of federal funds for reimbursement of other classes of drugs in the future may also have an adverse effect. we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in europe and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for government-sponsored healthcare systems. in particular, there were government-mandated price reductions for certain biopharmaceutical products in certain european and emerging market countries in 2011, and we anticipate continuing pricing pressures in europe and emerging markets in 2012. this international patchwork of price regulation has led to different prices and some third-party trade in our products between countries. as a result, it is expected that pressures on the pricing component of operating results will continue. the adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions or more restrictive ones in existing jurisdictions, failure to obtain government-approved pricing or formulary placement where required for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could also adversely impact revenue. in our vaccines business, we participate in a tender process in many countries for participation in national immunization programs. failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. mcos and other private insurers frequently adopt their own payment or reimbursement reductions. consolidation among mcos has increased the negotiating power of these entities. private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. private health insurance companies and self-insured employers have been raising co-payments required from beneficiaries, particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products. private health insurance companies also are increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring that patient treatment first fail on a generic product before permitting access to a branded medicine. as the u.s. payer market concentrates further and more drugs become available in generic form, biopharmaceutical companies may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers, who will continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. 28 generic competition competition from manufacturers of generic drugs is a major challenge for us around the world. upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for one of our products, or upon the at-risk launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period, which can adversely affect our business. also, the patents covering several of our medicines, including lipitor , viagra , detrol/detrol la , lyrica , sutent , tygacil , rapamune , zyvox , avinza , epipen , torisel and embeda are being challenged by generic manufacturers. in addition, our patent-protected products may face competition in the form of generic versions of competitors branded products that lose their market exclusivity. competitive products we cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. products that compete with ours, including some of our best-selling medicines, are launched from time to time. competitive product launches have occurred in recent years, and certain potentially competitive products are in various stages of development, some of which have been filed for approval with the fda and with regulatory authorities in other countries. dependence on key in-line products we recorded direct product revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 12 biopharmaceutical products in 2011: lipitor , lyrica , prevnar 13/prevenar 13 , enbrel , celebrex , viagra , norvasc , zyvox , xalatan/xalacom , sutent , geodon/zeldox and the premarin family. those products accounted for 56% of our total biopharmaceutical revenues in 2011. lipitor sales in 2011 were approximately $9.6 billion, accounting for approximately 14% of our total 2011 revenues. among other losses of exclusivity for lipitor , we lost exclusivity for lipitor in the u.s. on november 30, 2011, and lipitor will have lost exclusivity in the majority of european markets by may 2012. as a result, we expect that our revenues for lipitor in 2012 will be substantially less than our 2011 revenues for lipitor . if the products referenced above or any of our other major products were to become subject to problems such as loss of patent protection, changes in prescription growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling or, if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. as noted, patents covering several of our best-selling medicines have recently expired or will expire in the next few years (including some of our billion-dollar products such as lipitor as discussed above, xalatan in the u.s. in march 2011 and xalatan/xalacom in 15 major european markets in january 2012 and geodon in the u.s. in march 2012), and patents covering a number of our best-selling medicines are the subject of pending legal challenges. in addition, our revenues could be significantly impacted by the timing and rate of commercial acceptance of key new products. specialty pharmaceuticals specialty pharmaceuticals are medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions that have smaller patient populations, such as certain types of cancer and multiple sclerosis. the growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the impact on us of payers efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, our growing portfolio of specialty products, combined with the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments, may lead to a more significant adverse business impact in the future. 29 research and development investment the discovery and development of safe, effective new products, and the development of additional uses for existing products, are very important to our success. our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers, either through internal research and development or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. however, balancing current growth and investment for the future remains a major challenge. our ongoing investments in new product introductions and in research and development for new products and existing product extensions could exceed corresponding sales growth. this could produce higher costs without a proportional increase in revenues. additionally, our research and development investment plans and resources may not be correctly matched between science and markets, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic segments, product classes, geographic markets and/or in-licensing and out-licensing opportunities in order to deliver a more robust pipeline could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. additionally, even if the areas with the greatest market attractiveness are identified, the science may not work for any given program despite the significant investment required for research and development. we recently announced a focus on fewer disease areas where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial success, as well as the implementation of our r&amp;d footprint reduction by moving forward on our productivity initiatives. as a result of these actions, we expect significant reductions in our annual research and development expenses, which are reflected in our 2012 financial guidance. there can be no assurance that this strategy will deliver the desired result in the targeted timeframe or at all, which could affect profitability in the future. development, regulatory approval and marketing of products risks and uncertainties apply particularly with respect to product-related, forward-looking statements. the outcome of the lengthy and complex process of identifying new compounds and developing new products is inherently uncertain. drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. the process from early discovery or design to development to regulatory approval can take many years. drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process. there can be no assurance as to whether or when we will receive regulatory approval for new products or for new indications or dosage forms for existing products. decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters could adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. as examples, there is no assurance that our late stage pipeline products, such as tofacitinib, bosutinib and eliquis (apixaban) for prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation, will receive regulatory approval and/or be commercially successful or that recently approved products, such as prevnar 13/prevenar 13 for use in adults 50 years of age and older, xalkori (crizotinib) and inlyta (axitinib) will be approved in other markets and/or be commercially successful. there is also a risk that we may not adequately address existing regulatory agency findings concerning the adequacy of our regulatory compliance processes and systems or implement sustainable processes and procedures to maintain regulatory compliance and to address future regulatory agency findings, should they occur. there are many considerations that can affect marketing of our products around the world. regulatory delays, delays in or the inability to successfully complete or adequately design and implement clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are a few of the factors that can adversely affect the realization of research and development and product-related, forward-looking statements. further, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy can result in a negative impact on product sales, product recalls or withdrawals, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. also, increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, with regulatory authorities increasingly focused on product safety and the risk/benefit profile of products as they relate to already-approved products, has resulted in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process due to requests for, among other things, additional clinical trials prior to granting approval or increased post-approval requirements, such as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (see post-approval data below). 30 post-approval data as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the fda may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials. the results generated in these phase iv trials could result in loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product. the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007 (the fdaaa) gives the fda enhanced post-market authority, including the explicit authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with fda-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. the fda exercise of its authority under the fdaaa could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to comply with additional post-approval regulatory requirements and potential restrictions on sales of approved products. foreign regulatory agencies often have similar authority and may impose comparable costs. post-marketing studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other emerging data about marketed products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect sales of our products. further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on sales of the affected products. accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal or recall. furthermore, new data and information, including information about product misuse, may lead government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups or organizations involved with various diseases to publish guidelines or recommendations related to the use of our products or the use of related therapies or place restrictions on sales. such guidelines or recommendations may lead to lower sales of our products. patent protection our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. our currently pending or future patent applications and/or extensions may not result in issued patents or be approved on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws, some of which create legal uncertainty or unpredictability with respect to the requirements and standards for patent protection. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain sovereigns may engage in compulsory licensing of pharmaceutical intellectual property as a result of local political pressure. in addition, mechanisms exist in much of the world permitting some form of challenge by generic drug marketers to our patents prior to, or immediately following, the expiration of any regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are increasingly employing aggressive strategies, such as at risk launches to challenge our patent rights. our business also may rely on unpatented proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets. if the confidentiality of this intellectual property is breached, it could adversely impact our business. biotechnology products the aca has created a framework for the approval of biosimilars in the u.s. following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic, with a potential six-month pediatric extension. such biosimilars could reference biotechnology products already approved under the u.s. public health service act. additionally, the fda has approved a biosimilar recombinant human growth hormone that referenced our biotechnology product, genotropin , which was approved under the u.s. federal food, drug, and cosmetic act. in europe, the european commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general 31 and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years, and in japan, the regulatory authority has granted marketing authorizations for certain biosimilars, including somatropin (the recombinant human growth hormone in our genotropin product) pursuant to a guideline for biosimilar approvals issued in 2009. if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from biosimilars, with the attendant competitive pressure. expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could generally trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. we may face more litigation with respect to the validity and/or scope of patents relating to our biotechnology products with substantial revenue. pfizer is developing biosimilar medicines. the developing pathway for registration and approval of biosimilar products in the u.s. could diminish the value of investments in biosimilars that pfizer has made, and may continue to make going forward. other risks include the potential for steeper than anticipated price erosion due to increased competitive intensity, coupled with high costs associated with clinical development, secondary patents or intellectual property challenges that may preclude timely commercialization, and lower prescriptions of biosimilars due to concerns over protein comparability over innovator medicines. research studies decisions about research studies made early in the development process of a drug candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities once the drug receives approval. more detailed studies may demonstrate additional benefits that can help in the marketing and payer reimbursement process, but they consume time and resources and can delay submitting the drug candidate for initial approval. we try to plan clinical trials prudently, but there is no guarantee that a proper balance of speed and testing will be made in each case. the quality of our decisions in this area could affect our future results. foreign exchange and interest rate risk significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. 60% of our total 2011 revenues were derived from international operations, including 27% from the europe region and 20% from the japan and the rest of asia region. as we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the u.k. pound, the japanese yen, the canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the u.s. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. if the u.s. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact, and our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact, on net income. likewise, if the u.s. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact, and our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact on net income. therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. in addition, our interest-bearing investments, loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. these risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report. for additional details, see the notes to consolidated financial statements note 7e. financial instruments derivative financial instruments and hedging activities in our 2011 financial report. those sections of our 2011 financial report are incorporated by reference. notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our businesses. risks affecting international operations our international operations also could be affected by capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations 32 and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to, our products, as well as by political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes. any of these changes could adversely affect our business. many emerging markets have experienced growth rates in excess of the world largest markets, leading to an increased contribution to the industry global performance. as a result, we have been employing strategies to grow in emerging markets. however, there is no assurance that our strategies in emerging markets will be successful or that these countries will continue to sustain these growth rates. in addition, some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending, which, as discussed above, can adversely affect our results. animal health our animal health unit may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions, resulting in high unemployment rates and tight credit conditions. a high unemployment rate typically results in reduced traffic in veterinary clinics, negatively impacting our companion animal business. tight credit conditions limit the borrowing power of livestock producers, causing some to switch to lower-priced alternatives. see global economic conditions below. pfizer nutrition pfizer nutrition may be impacted by challenging global economic conditions and the resulting effect on consumer spending, both in developed and emerging markets. the nutrition business may also experience significant financial impact associated with changes in national, regional, and international laws, rules and guidelines and their enforcement. our infant and young child nutrition products are subject to an array of rules and regulations enforced by local government entities, as well as treaties, conventions and guidelines from international authorities. changes to these requirements can significantly impact costs relating to taxes, tariffs, trade, labeling, marketing, manufacturing, and the overall availability of our products. see global economic conditions below. consumer healthcare the consumer healthcare unit may be impacted by economic volatility and generic or store brand competition affecting consumer spending patterns and market share gains of competitors branded products or generic store brands. in addition, regulatory and legislative outcomes regarding the safety, efficacy or unintended uses of specific ingredients in our consumer healthcare products may require withdrawal and/or reformulation of certain products (e.g. cough/cold products). see global economic conditions below. global economic conditions in addition to industry-specific factors, we, like other businesses, continue to face the effects of the challenging economic environment, which have impacted our biopharmaceutical operations in the u.s. and europe, affecting the performance of products such as lipitor , celebrex and lyrica . we believe that patients experiencing the effects of the challenging economic environment, including high unemployment levels and increases in co-pays, sometimes switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments to reduce their costs. challenging economic conditions in the u.s. also have increased the number of patients in the medicaid program, under which sales of pharmaceuticals are subject to substantial rebates and, in many states, to formulary restrictions limiting access to brand-name drugs, including ours. in addition, we experienced continued pricing pressure in various economic environments around the world, including in europe and in a number of emerging markets, resulting in government-mandated reductions in prices for certain biopharmaceutical products, as well as government-imposed access restrictions in certain countries. 33 the global economic downturn and the challenging global economic environment have not had, nor do we anticipate they will have, a material impact on our liquidity. due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. as market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. however, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions. other potential impacts of these challenging economic conditions include declining sales; increased costs; changes in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of, or a lower rate of return on, our financial assets and pension plan investments, which may require us to increase our pension funding obligations; adverse government actions; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers, and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. outsourcing outsourcing to third parties in areas including transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial execution, non-clinical research, safety services and other areas could expose us to sub-optimal quality, missed deadlines, supply disruptions, non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our results. for example, we are transitioning our clinical trial execution model from multiple functional service providers to two strategic partners. any issues with one or both of these partners or during the transition could adversely impact our business. interactions with healthcare professionals risks and uncertainties apply where we provide something of value to a healthcare professional and/or government official, which, if found to be improper, could potentially result in government enforcement actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations. difficulties of our wholesale distributors in 2011, our largest wholesale distributor accounted for approximately 13% of our total revenue (and 30% of our total u.s. revenue), and our top three wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 32% of our total revenue (and 77% of our total u.s. revenue). if one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties, such distributor may decrease the amount of business that it does with us, and we may be unable to collect all the amounts that the distributor owes us on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. product manufacturing and marketing risks difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or marketing could affect future results through regulatory actions, shut-downs, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions or shortages, reputational harm, product liability, unanticipated costs or otherwise. examples of such difficulties or delays include, but are not limited to, the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; the failure to predict market demand for, or to gain market acceptance of, approved products; the possibility that the supply of incoming materials may be delayed or become unavailable and that the quality of incoming materials may be substandard and not detected; or that we may fail to maintain appropriate quality standards throughout the internal and external supply network and/or comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations. counterfeit products a counterfeit medicine is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. a counterfeit pfizer medicine, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than pfizer, but which 34 appears to be the same as an authentic pfizer medicine. counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and often unsanitary sites as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines could adversely impact our business, by, among other things, causing the loss of patient confidence in the pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines. cost and expense control/unusual events/intangible assets and goodwill growth in costs and expenses, changes in product, segment and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to successfully implement our plans, announced february 1, 2011, regarding our research and development function (see research and development investment above), as well as our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, including those related to our research and development function. in addition, our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. for ipr&amp;d assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets will ultimately yield successful products. the nature of the biopharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects in an effort to achieve a successful portfolio of approved products. our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. as such, we expect that many of these ipr&amp;d assets will become impaired and be written off at some time in the future. further, as discussed above in item 1. business under the caption operating segments , pfizer used to report all of its biopharmaceutical businesses in a single segment (biopharmaceutical) and now reports these businesses in three operating segments (primary care; specialty care and oncology; and emerging markets and established products). as a result of this change, the goodwill previously associated with the single biopharmaceutical operating segment has been allocated among the three new biopharmaceutical operating segments. while all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to impairments (such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity), in general, our increased number of biopharmaceutical reporting units significantly increases our risk of goodwill impairment charges as smaller reporting units are inherently less able to absorb negative developments that might affect certain operating assets but not others. changes in laws and accounting standards our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law and regulatory interpretations including changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. that may result from pending and possible future proposals), competition laws and environmental laws in the u.s. and other countries. terrorist activity our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of terrorist activity in the u.s. and other parts of the world and related u.s. military action overseas. legal proceedings we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various patent, product liability, consumer, commercial, securities, antitrust, environmental, employment and tax litigations and claims, government investigations and 35 other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements of claims or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid or accrued. our activities relating to the sale and marketing and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the u.s. federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the medicaid drug rebate program, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and other federal and state statutes, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. like many companies in our industry, we have from time to time received inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities, and been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities brought by governmental authorities, as well as by consumers and private payers. in some instances, we have incurred significant expense and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. for example, these claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged failures to accurately interpret or identify or prevent non-compliance with the laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product information (approved and unapproved), potentially resulting in government enforcement and damage to our reputation. patent claims include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. although we believe we have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all our material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the drug at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that drug and could materially affect future results of operations. business development activities we expect to continue to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and alliances. see the overview of our performance, operating environment, strategy and outlook our business development initiatives section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report, which is incorporated by reference. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability and cost of appropriate opportunities and competition from other pharmaceutical companies that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify and execute transactions. information technology we rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. the size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to service interruption, malicious intrusion and random attack. likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems, including in some cases third-party service providers to which we may outsource certain business functions, may pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property or personal information, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. while we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems, that could adversely affect our business and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. failure to realize the anticipated benefits of strategic initiatives and acquisitions our future results may be affected by (i) the impact of, and our ability to successfully execute, any strategic alternatives we decide to pursue for our animal health and nutrition businesses, as well as any other corporate strategic initiatives we may pursue in the future, and (ii) our ability to realize the projected benefits of our acquisition of king pharmaceuticals, inc., as well as any other acquisitions we may pursue in the future. 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information required by this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the financial risk management section of the md&amp;a in our 2011 financial report.