risk factors 5 risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified on page 39 and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. in addition, product cost inflation may negatively impact consumer spending decisions, which could adversely impact our sales. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. our estimate for the inflation in sysco cost of goods was 5.5 % in fiscal 2012, compared to estimated inflation of 4.6% in fiscal 2011 and deflation of 1.5% in fiscal 2010. our results and financial condition are directly affected by the volatility in the global economic environment and local market conditions and low consumer confidence, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and is especially susceptible to trends in economic activity, such as the recent global recession. the global economic environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and extreme volatility in financial markets worldwide, which has been exacerbated by the significant uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain eurozone countries. in addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. the difficult economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases which could be negatively impact our business by reduced demand for our products . heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending and can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers from tighter credit markets, temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers and/or liquidity issues resulting from an inability to access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations. this environment has adversely affected both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. 5 competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability the foodservice distribution industry is highly competitive, with numerous regional and local competitors, and is a mature industry characterized by slowing revenue growth. additionally, new competition could arise from non-traditional sources, group purchasing organizations or consolidation among competitors. new competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. such competition may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. increased competition within the industry and general economic conditions have served to further increase pressure on the industry profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. although our sales historically have grown faster than the market, in recent years we have experienced slowing revenue growth. these trends have placed pressure on our profit margins and made it more difficult to achieve growth and pass along cost increases. we expect these trends to continue for the foreseeable future. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. if fuel costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price for diesel. if fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in us paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. business and operational risks our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives to grow the profitability of our business depends largely on the success of the business transformation project in fiscal 2009, we commenced our business transformation project, which currently consists of three main components: the design and deployment of an enterprise resource planning (erp) system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations; a cost transformation initiative to lower our cost structure by $300 million to $350 million annually by fiscal 2015. these include initiatives to increase our productivity in the warehouse and delivery activities including fleet management and maintenance activities. it also involves improving sales productivity and reducing general and administrative expenses, partially through aligning compensation and benefit plans ; and a product cost reduction initiative which is designed to lower our total product costs by $250 million to $300 million annually by fiscal 2015. this initiative involves the use of market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment. we believe there are opportunities to more effectively provide the products that our customers want, to benefit from our purchasing power and to create mutually beneficial partnerships with our suppliers. we believe that procuring greater quantities with select vendors will result in reduced prices for our product purchases . although we expect the investment in the business transformation project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs exceeded the benefits during the testing stages of implementation of erp, including in fiscal 2012. we believe the costs will exceed the benefits in fiscal 2013. successfully managing deployment is critical to our business success. while we expect all three components of the business transformation project to enhance our value proposition to customers and suppliers and improve our long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all. the actual cost of the erp system may be greater or less than currently expected and delays in the execution of deployment may adversely affect our business and results of operations erp implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. our cost estimates related to our erp system are based on assumptions which are subject to wide variability, require a great deal of judgment, and are inherently uncertain. thus, the actual costs of the project in 6 fiscal 2013 (and beyond) may be greater or less than currently expected. for example, as we continue implementation of the project, we have encountered, and we may continue to encounter, the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including incurring expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. in addition, implementation of the systems require significant management attention and resources over an extended period of time and any significant design errors or delay in the implementation of the systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. delays in deployment, additional operating problems discovered in the underlying information technology systems processes, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the erp implementation process adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, because the implementation is expected to continue to involve a significant capital commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the erp system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. there can be no guarantee that we will be able to realize the intended results of the system software and implementation activities. we expect costs to continue to outweigh benefits for fiscal 2013 as we commence deployment. we may not realize anticipated benefits from our cost reduction efforts we have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. we may not realize anticipated benefits from our product cost reduction initiative our product cost reduction initiative will be deployed to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment issues. this initiative aims to improve our offerings to customers, strengthen strategic relationships with suppliers, and improve our sales and profit margins. the implementation of changes may not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate, or at all. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, product recalls, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. in the summer months of 2012, certain agricultural areas of the united states have experienced severe drought. the impact of this drought is uncertain and could result in volatile input costs. input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. anything that damages that reputation or the public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, such as flu epidemics or other pandemics, even those unrelated to the use of sysco products, or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically. 7 expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business we are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, including regulations of the fda, usda, u.s. occupational safety and health administration, federal motor carrier safety, data privacy, environmental protection, the import and export of goods and customs regulations, the false claims act, the foreign corrupt practices act and the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. product liability claims could materially impact our business we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. 8 we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position as of june 30, 2012, we had approximately $3 billion of total indebtedness. we have a board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion; a revolving credit facility supporting our u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.0 billion set to expire on december 29, 2016; and certain uncommitted bank lines of credit providing for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $ 95.0 million. in june 2012, we issued $750 million in senior notes, which contributed to an increase in our total indebtedness. our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results. technology dependence could have a material negative impact on our business our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the erp system. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2012, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $68 million, which included payments for withdrawal liabilities of $34 million. the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit . based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $205 million as of june 30, 2012. a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase and our earnings may decrease should financial markets experience future declines our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. our expense is also impacted by these items. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet at fiscal year-end, which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our discount rate at fiscal year-end. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions and pension expense may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. 9 at the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freez e future benefit accruals under the retirement plan as of december 31, 20 12 for all u.s.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees . effective january 1, 2013, these employees will be eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $2.7 billion as of june 30, 2012 which could continue to impact our funding requirements and our earnings. additionally, although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. see note 13, company-sponsored employee benefit plans to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the retirement plan. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages as of june 30, 2012, approximately 8,200 employees at 50 operating companies were members of 53 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2013, 15 agreements covering approximately 1,400 employees have expired or will expire. since june 30, 2012, one contract covering 48 of the approximately 1,400 employees has been renegotiated. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2012 as of june 30, 2012 , we had no commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of june 30, 2012 was $ 3.0 billion, of which approximately 84 % was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. in may 2012, we entered into an agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million to lock in a component of the interest rate on our then forecasted debt offering. we designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on a portion of the june 2012 forecasted debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. in june 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, we settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt. in fiscal 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $250 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 (the fiscal 2013 swap) and $200 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 (the fiscal 2014 swap) to floating rate debt. both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. these transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. as of june 30, 2012 , the fiscal 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within prepaid expenses and other current assets of $2.5 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. as of june 30, 2012, the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $ 6.2 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 30, 2012. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 30, 2012 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 3,570 $ 2,979 $ 299,846 $ 1,153 $ 604 $ 2,216,827 $ 2,524,979 $ 3,030,042 average interest rate 4.5 % 4.1 % 0.8 % 4.7 % 4.9 % 5.2 % 4.7 % floating rate debt (1) $ 249,964 $ 206,673 $ 1,100 $ - $ - $ 12,500 $ 470,237 $ 481,475 average interest rate 2.6 % 2.1 % 0.2 % - - 0.5 % 2.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,116 $ 1,147 $ 1,189 $ 1,187 $ 1,203 $ 17,280 $ 23,122 $ 27,746 average interest rate 8.4 % 8.7 % 8.9 % 9.3 % 9.8 % 9.7 % 9.6 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements. 40 interest rate position as of june 30, 2012 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 250,000 $ 200,000 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 450,000 $ 8,694 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 2.1 % 2.1 % - - - - 2.1 % fixed rate received 4.2 % 4.6 % - - - - 4.4 % rate a three-month libor fiscal 20 11 as of july 2, 2011, we had no commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of july 2, 2011 was $2.7 billion, of which approximately 75% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. as of july 2, 2011, the fiscal 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $6.1 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. as of july 2, 2011, the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $7.4 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. the following tables present our interest rate position as of july 2, 2011. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 2, 2011 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 205,616 $ 3,682 $ 1,910 $ 1,117 $ 632 $ 1,772,072 $ 1,985,029 $ 2,214,529 average interest rate 6.0 % 4.1 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.6 % 5.8 % 5.9 % floating rate debt (1) $ 181,975 $ 253,316 $ 208,779 $ 1,100 $ - $ 12,500 $ 657,670 $ 676,075 average interest rate 2.0 % 2.4 % 1.9 % 0.2 % - 0.5 % 2.0 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,178 $ 1,173 $ 1,219 $ 1,264 $ 1,264 $ 19,492 $ 25,590 $ 28,549 average interest rate 7.7 % 8.4 % 8.7 % 8.8 % 9.3 % 9.8 % 9.5 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 234 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 234 $ 261 average interest rate 8.9 % - - - - - 8.9 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements. interest rate position as of july 2, 2011 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ - $ 250,000 $ 200,000 $ $ - $ - $ 450,000 $ 13,482 average variable rate paid: rate a plus - 2.1 % 2.1 % - - 2.1 % fixed rate received - 4.2 % 4.6 % - - 4.4 % rate a three-month libor 41 foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 201 1 and positively impacted sales by 0.5 % in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share w as not material in fi scal 2012 and fiscal 2011 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2012 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2012 sales by 1.2 % and woul d not have materially impa cted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share . we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.7 %, 0. 6 % and 0.6 % of sales, respectively. fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by ysco increased by approximately $ 39.8 million in fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011 and by $ 33.0 million in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 30, 2012 , we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $ 96 million throu gh april 2013. subsequent to june 30, 2012, we entered into forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $ 20 million for may and june 2012. these contracts will lock in the price of approximately 35 % to 45 % of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices higher than the current market price for diesel. assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2013 , fuel costs exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are not expected to fluctuate significantly as compared to fiscal 2012 . our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel , the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2013 and estimates of fuel consumption. actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. a 10 % unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price use d in our estimates above would result in a potential increase to $ 10 million to $ 20 million . investment risk our company-sponsored qualified pension p lan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability . f luctuations in asset values can caus e the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end , which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have a material impact on our results of operations. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions, pension expense and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments h e ld by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan fiscal year end (december 31, 2011 ) wo uld not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2013; however, this unfavorable change would increa se our pension expense for fiscal 201 3 by $ 33.0 million and would reduce our shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of june 30, 2012 by $ 137.7 million . 42risk factors 5 risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified on page 43 and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, as well as the impact it may have on discretionary spending by consumers . conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. our results and financial condition are directly affected by the volatility in the global economic environment, local market conditions and low consumer confidence, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and is especially susceptible to trends and uncertainty in economic activity, such as the general economic slowdown in the us from 2008 to 2011 . the global economic environment has recently been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets worldwide. in addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. the difficult economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases which could negatively impact our business by reduced demand for our products . heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending and can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers, vendors and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. 5 the uncertainty in the global economic environment has adversely affected both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability the foodservice distribution industry is highly competitive, with numerous regional and local competitors, and is a mature industry characterized by slowing revenue growth. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), group purchasing organizations or consolidation among competitors have served to further increase pressure on the industry profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. new and increased competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. such competition may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. although our sales historically have grown faster than the market, in recent years we have experienced slowing revenue growth rates. these trends have placed pressure on our profit margins and made it more difficult to achieve growth and pass along cost increases. we expect these trends to continue for the foreseeable future. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environm ental concerns. on average, on-highway diesel fuel prices increased approximately 2% and 14% in fiscal 2013 and 2 012, respectively, as compared to the prior year. volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. if fuel costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price for diesel. if fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. business and operational risks our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives to grow the profitability of our business depends largely on the success of the business transformation project our multi-year business transformation project consists of: the design and deployment of an enterprise resource planning (erp) system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations; an operating cost transformation initiative to lower our cost structure ; a product cost reduction and category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment; and several other initiatives. although we expect the investment in the business transformation project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs exceeded the benefits during the testing stages of implementation of erp, including in fiscal 2013. successfully managing deployment is critical to our business success. while we expect all of the components of the business transformation project to enhance our value proposition to customers and suppliers and improve our long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all. the actual cost of the erp system may be greater or less than currently expected and continued delays in the execution of deployment may adversely affect our business and results of operations erp implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. our cost estimates related to our erp system are based on assumptions which are subject to wide variability, require a great deal of judgment, and are inherently uncertain. thus, the actual costs of the project in fiscal 2014 (and beyond) may be greater or less than currently expected. we have encountered, and we may continue to encounter, 6 the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including incurring expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. for example, we deployed our erp system to three additional locations in fiscal 2013 and are experiencing improved functionality in many areas compared to past deployments; however, while the majority of the system functionality is performing as designed, we have identified areas of improvement to certain components of the system that we want to address before we continue deploying to additional locations. in addition, implementation of the systems require significant management attention and resources over an extended period of time and any significant design errors or further delay in the implementation of the systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. continued delays in deployment, additional operating problems discovered in the underlying information technology systems processes, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the erp implementation process adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, because the implementation is expected to continue to involve a significant financial commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the erp system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. there can be no guarantee that we will be able to realize the intended results of the system software and implementation activities. we expect costs to continue to outweigh benefits for fiscal 2014 as we continue deployment. we may not realize anticipated benefits from our operating cost reduction efforts we have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. our future success and earnings growth depend upon our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and reduced profitability. a variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings, including, among other things, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time and unexpected costs associated with operating our business. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. furthermore , even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction efforts, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees and customers which could negatively affect our sales and profits. we may not realize the full anticipated benefits from our category management initiative we are in the midst of deploying our category management initiative which encompasses a rigorous process whereby we use market data and customer insights to optimize the product assortment available to our customers, strengthen strategic relationships with our suppliers, and increase our sales and profit margins. if our sales associates are not able to effectively gain acceptance of the new product assortment from our customers, or we and our suppliers are not able to absorb the significant administrative and process changes required, then we may not be able to successfully execute the category management initiative in the timeline we anticipate and we may not capture the financial and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate, or at all. furthermore , even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our category management initiative, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees and customers which could negatively affect our sales and profits. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us, however we believe the number of long-term contracts will increase as we progress with our category management initiative. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. the sysco brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or the public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our 7 products or relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand , and could quickly affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of sysco products), or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. if sales to our independent restaurant customers continue to grow at a lower rate than sales to our large regional and national customers, our operating income may decline similar to industry trends, we are currently growing our large regional and national customers sales at a faster rate than our sales to independent restaurant locations. gross margin from our large regional and national customers is generally lower than that of our independent restaurant customers because we typically provide a higher level of services to these customers and are able to earn a higher gross margin as a result . if sales to our independent restaurant customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our large regional and national customers, unless we are able to successfully increase prices or reduce our cost structure, our operating income may decline. as we grow sales to large regional and national customers at a faster pace than we grow sales to independent restaurant customers, we face the risk that large regional and national customers will increase their proportion of our total sales, thus subjecting us to greater risk if we lose one or more of these customers and possibly enabling these larger customers to exert greater pressure on us to reduce our prices if sales to our large regional and national customers continues to increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our independent restaurant customers, we may become more dependent on large regional and national customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales, and any loss of sales to these customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices . in that event, we would need to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions or our gross margins and profitability would be materially adversely affected . we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. 8 if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business we are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. we have received notice from the state of california and certain county district attorneys alleging violations of statutes related to the use of drop sites, which are temporary facilities for holding products prior to distributing them to customers. we are fully cooperating with these parties in their investigations. we have discontinued the use of drop sites across the enterprise. while we believe we have mitigated the risk, we may face fines and penalties. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. product liability claims could materially impact our business we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely impacted. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on cash flow and liquidity a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. 9 our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position as of june 29, 2013, we had approximately $3 billion of total indebtedness. we have a board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion; a revolving credit facility supporting our u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.0 billion set to expire on december 29, 2016, with $925 million extended to december 29, 2017; certain uncommitted bank lines of credit providing for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $ 95.0 million; and a 75.0 million (euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility for use by our irish subsidiary set to expire september 25, 2013, which is subject to extension . our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. we rely on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits. furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the erp system. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2013, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $66 million, which included payments for withdrawal liabilities of $32 million. the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit . based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $220 million as of june 29, 2013. a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines at the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan ( retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $2.7 billion as of june 29, 2013 therefore financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. see note 13, company-sponsored employee benefit plans to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the retirement plan. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. our retirement plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in 10 determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages as of june 29, 2013, approximately 8,100 employees at 51 operating companies were members of 57 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2014, 1 9 agreements covering approximately 2 ,800 employees have expired or will expire. since june 29, 2013, two contract covering approximately 300 of such employees have been renegotiated. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. a cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers and suppliers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2013 as of june 29, 2013 , we had $95.5 million of commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of june 29, 2013 was $ 2.9 billion, of which approximately 88 % was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement. in fiscal 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $250 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 (the fiscal 2013 swap) and $200 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 (the fiscal 2014 swap) to floating rate debt. both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. these transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. the swap agreement related to the fiscal 2013 debt was settled upon maturity of the senior notes in february 2013, leaving one remaining outstanding swap agreement as of june 29, 2013. as of june 29, 2013 , the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized a an asset withi n the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within prepaid expenses and other current assets of $3.0 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6 % and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. 44 the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 29, 2013. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 29, 2013 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 3,251 $ 301,632 $ 1,856 $ 1,149 $ 498,867 $ 1,719,270 $ 2,526,025 $ 2,838,162 average interest rate 4.4 % 0.8 % 4.4 % 4.2 % 5.4 % 5.2 % 4.7 % floating rate debt (1) $ 297,690 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 297,690 $ 301,364 average interest rate 1.5 % - % - % - - - % 1.5 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,396 $ 1,520 $ 1,430 $ 1,345 $ 1,312 $ 15,410 $ 22,413 $ 25,183 average interest rate 8.0 % 7.7 % 8.6 % 9.1 % 9.7 % 9.7 % 9.4 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 464 $ 695 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 1,159 $ 1,302 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % - % - % - % - % 3.8 % floating rate debt $ 41,632 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 41,632 $ 41,632 average interest rate 1.0 % - % - % - % - % - % 1.0 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of june 29, 2013 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 200,000 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 200,000 $ 2,988 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 2.1 % - - - - - 2.1 % fixed rate received 4.6 % - - - - - 4.6 % rate a three-month libor fiscal 2012 as of june 30, 2012 , we had no commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of june 30, 2012 was $ 3.0 billion, of which approximately 84 % was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. in may 2012, we entered into an agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million to lock in a component of the interest rate on our then forecasted debt offering. we designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on a portion of the june 2012 forecasted debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. in june 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, we settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt. as of june 30, 2012 , the fiscal 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within prepaid expenses and other current assets of $2.5 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2 % and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly . as of june 30, 2012, the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $ 6.2 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6 % and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. 45 the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 30, 2012. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 30, 2012 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 3,570 $ 2,979 $ 299,846 $ 1,153 $ 604 $ 2,216,827 $ 2,524,979 $ 3,030,042 average interest rate 4.5 % 4.1 % 0.8 % 4.7 % 4.9 % 5.2 % 4.7 % floating rate debt (1) $ 249,964 $ 206,673 $ 1,100 $ - $ - $ 12,500 $ 470,237 $ 481,475 average interest rate 2.6 % 2.1 % 0.2 % - - 0.5 % 2.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,116 $ 1,147 $ 1,189 $ 1,187 $ 1,203 $ 17,280 $ 23,122 $ 27,746 average interest rate 8.4 % 8.7 % 8.9 % 9.3 % 9.8 % 9.7 % 9.6 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements. interest rate position as of june 30, 2012 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 250,000 $ 200,000 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 450,000 $ 8,694 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 2.1 % 2.1 % - - - - 2.1 % fixed rate received 4.2 % 4.6 % - - - - 4.4 % rate a three-month libor foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales in fiscal 2013 when compared to fiscal 201 2 or in fiscal 2012 when compared to fiscal 2011 . the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share w as not material in fi scal 2013 or fiscal 2012 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2013 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2013 sales by 1.1 % and woul d not have materially impa cted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share . we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.7%, 0 .7 % and 0.6 % of sales, respectively. fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by ysco increased by approximately $ 18.9 million in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012 and by $ 39.8 million in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 29, 2013 , we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $ 204 million throu gh august 2014. thes e contracts will lock in the price of approximate ly 60% to 65% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices slight ly lower t han the current market price for diesel. 46 assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2014, fuel costs, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expect ed to increase by approximately $10 to $20 million as compared to fiscal 2013. our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel , the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2014 and estimates of fuel consumption. actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. a 10 % unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price use d in our estimates above would result in a potentia l increase of $20 million to $30 million. investment risk our company-sponsored qualified pension p lan (retirement plan) holds investments in public and private equity , fixed income securities and real estate funds . the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability . f luctuations in asset values can caus e the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end , which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments h e ld by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan fiscal year end (december 31, 2012 ) wo uld not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2014; however, this unfavorable change would increa se our pension expense for fiscal 2014 by $ 26.8 million and would reduce our shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of june 29, 2013 by $ 155.1 million . 47risk factors 6 risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified on page 48 and from historical trends. merger-related risks the closing and consummation of the merger with us foods, inc. (us foods) is subject to regulatory approval and the satisfaction of certain conditions, and we cannot predict whether the necessary conditions will be satisfied or waived and the requisite regulatory approvals received. the completion of the merger with us foods is subject to regulatory approvals, including anti-trust approval, and customary conditions, including, without limitation: the approval of the stockholders of us foods; the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended; the accuracy of the representations and warranties in the merger agreement and compliance with the respective covenants of the parties, subject to certain qualifiers; the absence of any law, proceeding, order or injunction that prohibits the consummation of the merger; the absence of certain governmental actions; the absence of a material adverse effect on us foods; and the receipt by us foods of a customary tax opinion with respect to the merger. sysco and us foods may fail to secure the requisite approvals in a timely manner or on terms desired or anticipated, and the merger with us foods may not close in the anticipated time frame, if at all. sysco has no control over certain conditions in the merger agreement, and cannot predict whether such conditions will be satisfied or waived. regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the transaction. such conditions or changes may prevent the closing of the merger or cause the merger to be delayed, and delays may cause sysco to incur additional, potentially burdensome transaction costs. sysco and us foods may be required to accept certain remedies in order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger, and any such remedies could reduce the projected benefits of the merger and negatively impact the combined company. the imposition of remedies as a condition to obtaining regulatory approval for the transaction could limit the revenues of the combined company and negatively impact the combined company. the potential remedies may negatively impact the projected benefits of the proposed merger, along with the business, financial condition and competitiveness of sysco, as the combined company. even if regulatory approval for the merger is obtained, any remedies could result in the total revenues of the combined post-merger entity being less than the combined historical revenues of sysco and us foods. termination of the merger agreement or failure to consummate the merger with us foods could adversely impact sysco and, under certain conditions, could require sysco to make a termination payment of $300 million, which could adversely impact sysco stock price and would adversely impact sysco liquidity and financial condition. the merger agreement contains certain termination rights, including the right of either party to terminate the merger agreement if the merger has not occurred by march 8, 2015, subject to extension under certain circumstances. furthermore, if the merger agreement is terminated due to a failure to obtain required antitrust approvals, in certain circumstances sysco will be required to pay us foods a termination fee of $300 million. the payment of such fee would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. in addition, if the merger agreement is terminated, we may suffer other negative consequences. our business may be negatively impacted by our management having focused its attention on acquiring us foods instead of pursuing other advantageous business opportunities or plans. furthermore, we will incur substantial expenses and costs related to the merger, whether or not it is consummated, including legal, accounting and advisory fees. also, failure to consummate the merger may result in negative market reactions, and may have an adverse impact on sysco stock price and future financial results. 6 business uncertainties during the pendency of the proposed merger may adversely impact our current business operations and relationships with employees, vendors and customers. prospective suppliers, customers or other third parties may delay or decline to enter into agreements with us as a result of the uncertainties surrounding the proposed merger, and we may also lose current suppliers and customers as a result of these uncertainties. furthermore, uncertainties as to the effect of the merger transaction may adversely impact employee morale, and impede our ability to retain key employees. the loss of key employees or union-related work stoppages could impact our ability to successfully integrate the businesses of sysco and us foods and fully realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. the pending merger and our current pre-merger integration planning efforts may divert resources from sysco day-to-day operations and ongoing efforts related to other strategies and initiatives. the pending merger and our current pre-merger integration planning efforts may divert our management attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives, including the initiatives related to our business transformation project, which has and will continue to require a substantial amount of resources. the diversion of management attention from ongoing business operations and strategic efforts could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact sysco business and operations. the integration of the businesses of sysco and us foods may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the merger may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies. the success of the merger between sysco and us foods, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend, in part, on the ability of sysco, as the combined company, to successfully integrate the businesses of sysco and us foods. failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the merger, including cost synergies stemming from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions. the integration of two large independent companies will be complex, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate sysco and us foods business practices, policies, cultures and operations. this diversion of our management attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives, including the initiatives related to our business transformation project, could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company business, operations and financial results. the integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company future financial results. furthermore, during the integration planning process and after the closing of the merger, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the merger or us foods business. delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company. we may not be able to retain some of us foods vendors and customers after the proposed merger, which could negatively impact the anticipated benefits of the merger. us foods vendors or customers may have termination rights that are triggered upon completion of the merger, and such vendors or customers may decide to not renew their existing relationship with us, and may instead select one of our competitors. if we are unable to retain and maintain these vendor and customer relationships, then the business, financial condition and operations of sysco, as the combined company, could be adversely impacted. consummation of the merger will require sysco to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely impact our financial condition and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business and investment opportunities. in connection with the merger, sysco will assume or refinance all of us foods outstanding debt, which was approximately $ 4.8 billion, as of june 28, 2014. any refinancing of us foods indebtedness is expected to be financed with a combination of new debt and cash on sysco balance sheet. sysco has secured fully committed bridge financing. incurrence of additional indebtedness could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and implement and pursue strategic initiatives and opportunities. additionally, if we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the merger with us foods, or if the financial performance of sysco, as the combined company, does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service the debt will be adversely impacted. our credit ratings may also be impacted as a result of the incurrence of additional acquisition-related indebtedness. currently, certain credit rating agencies have put us on watch for a potential downgrade. 7 the merger will dilute the ownership interests of sysco existing stockholders . at the time of the consummation of the proposed merger, sysco will issue approximately 87 million shares, or roughly 13% of sysco outstanding common stock after the transaction is completed. as a result, the ownership amounts of sysco pre-merger stockholders will be diluted. generally, dilution will impact a stockholder ownership percentage and ability to influence voting results, and will likely reduce earnings per share, which could impact stock price. industry and general economic risks periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability . volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. our results of operations and financial condition may be directly, adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in the us economy and local markets, as well as negative trends in consumer confidence. the foodservice distribution industry, which is characterized by relatively low profit margins with limited demand growth expected in the near-term, is especially susceptible to negative trends and economic uncertainty. the united states (u.s.) has experienced an uneven economic environment over the past several years. despite job growth experiencing a positive trend, it has yet to translate into a significant impact on overall unemployment. the housing segment is struggling to maintain consistent, positive trends, and this segment historically has been a key driver of economic growth. these factors indicate that consumer disposable income is increasing modestly. in addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. the difficult economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products . heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers, vendors and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. the uncertainty in the economic environment has adversely affected the rate of improvement in both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . the foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional, multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), and group purchasing organizations have served to further increase pressure on the industry profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers ability to absorb cost increases. new and increased competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. although our sales historically have grown faster than the market, industry growth rates have slowed over the past several years, and industry sources expect the lower growth rates to continue in the near-term. these trends have placed pressure on our profit margins and made it more difficult to leverage our cost structure and pass along cost increases. we expect these trends to continue for 8 the foreseeable future. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs . volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. we require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. on average, on-highway diesel fuel prices decreased approximately 1% in fiscal 2014 and increased approximately 2% in 2013, respectively, as compared to the prior year. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. if fuel costs increase further in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current forward price for diesel. if fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. business and operational risks our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives to grow the profitability of our business depends largely on the success of the business transformation project . our multi-year business transformation project consists of: the design and deployment of an enterprise resource planning (erp) system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations; initiatives to lower our cost structure ; and initiatives to lower our product costs. successfully managing deployment is critical to our business success. while we expect all of the components of the business transformation project to enhance our value proposition to customers and suppliers and improve our long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all. the actual cost of the erp system may be greater than currently expected and continued delays in the execution of deployment may adversely affect our business and results of operations . erp implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. our cost estimates related to our erp system are based on assumptions which are subject to wide variability, require a great deal of judgment, and are inherently uncertain. thus, the actual costs of the project in fiscal 2015 (and beyond) may be greater than currently expected. we have encountered, and we may continue to encounter, the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including incurring expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. for example, we deployed our erp system to five additional locations in fiscal 2014 and are continuing to experience improved functionality in many areas compared to past deployments; however, while the majority of the system functionality is performing as designed, we have continued to identify issues that we want to address before we continue deploying to additional locations. in addition, implementation of the erp system requires significant management attention and resources over an extended period of time and any significant design errors or delays in the implementation of the systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, because the implementation is expected to continue to involve a significant financial commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the erp system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. there can be no guarantee that we will be able to realize the intended results of the system software and implementation activities. we may not realize anticipated benefits from our operating cost reduction efforts . we have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. our future success and earnings growth will be significantly impacted by our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and low growth rates. a variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings, 9 including, among other things, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time and unexpected costs associated with operating our business. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. furthermore, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction efforts, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees, customers and suppliers, which could negatively affect our sales and profits. we may not realize the full anticipated benefits from our category management initiative. we are in the midst of deploying our category management initiative which encompasses a rigorous process whereby we use market data and customer insights to optimize the product assortment available to our customers, strengthen strategic relationships with our suppliers, drive product innovation and increase our sales and profit margins. if our sales associates are not able to effectively gain acceptance of the new product assortment from our customers or are not able to absorb the significant administrative and process changes required, then we may not be able to successfully execute the category management initiative in the timeline we anticipate and we may not capture all of the financial and other benefits that we anticipate. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs . we obtain substantially all of ou r foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us; however, we believe the number of long-term contracts will increase as we progress with our category management initiative. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings . maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. the sysco brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or the public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to activities by our operations, employees, suppliers or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand , and could adversely affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of sysco products), or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, will have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 10 if sales to our locally-managed customers grow at a lower rate than sales to our corporate-managed customers, our operating margins may decline and our corporate-managed customers will increase their proportion of our total sales, thus subjecting us to greater risk if we lose one or more of these customers and possibly enabling these larger customers to exert greater pressure on us to reduce our prices and/or expand our services . our sales to corporate-managed customers have generally grown at a faster rate than our sales to locally-managed locations. gross margin from our corporate-managed customers is generally lower than that of our locally-managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally-managed customers. if sales to our locally-managed customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our corporate-managed customers, our operating margins may decline. moreover, if sales to our corporate-managed customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally-managed customers, we will become more dependent on corporate-managed customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. additionally, the loss of sales to the larger of these corporate-managed customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. in that event, we would need to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases or our gross margins and profitability could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful . in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business . we are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. 11 product liability claims could materially impact our business . we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively . historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely impacted. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. see -- the integration of the businesses of sysco and us foods may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the merger may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies. we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on cash flow and liquidity . a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. see -- consummation of the merger will require sysco to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely impact our financial condition and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business and investment opportunities. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . as of june 28, 2014, we had approximately $3 bil lion of total indebtedness. we have a board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billi on; a revolving credit facility supporting our u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.5 b illion set to expire on december 29, 2018; certain uncommitted bank lines of credit providing for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $ 95.0 milli on; and a 100.0 million (euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility for use by our irish subsidiary set to expire september 24, 2014, which is subject to extension . our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. see -- consummation of the merger will require sysco to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely impact our financial condition and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business and investment opportunities. our liquidity can be negatively impacted by payments required to appeal tax assessments with certain tax jurisdictions . certain tax jurisdictions require partial to full payment of audit assessments or the posting of letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. sysco has posted approximately $32.5 m illion in letters of credit in order to appeal the canadian revenue agency assessments of transfer pricing adjustments relating to our cross border procurement activities through our former purchasing cooperative on our 2004 and 2005 fiscal years. if assessed on later years currently under examination using these same positions, we could have to pay cash or post additional letters of credit of as much as $129.0 million, in order to appeal these further assessments. if significant further payments are required, the c ompany financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. 12 we rely on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business . our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits. furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the erp system. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. a cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers . we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers and suppliers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans . we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2014, our total contributions to these plans were approxim ately $76 million, which included payments for withdrawal liabilities of $41 million . the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years . the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiempl oyer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit . based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $245 mill ion as of june 28, 2014. a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines . at the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan ( retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation o f $3.2 bi llion as of june 28, 2014; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. see note 14 , company-sponsored employee benefit plans to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the retirement plan. 13 the amount of our annual contribution to the retirement plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the retirement plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. our retirement plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the retirement plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages . as of june 28, 2014, approximately 8,8 00 employees at 52 operating companies were members of 59 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2015, 13 agreements covering approximately 1,900 emp loyees have expired or will expire. since june 28, 2014, there have been no contract renegotiations . failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings . the future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our employee recruitment, development and retention efforts may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2014 as of june 28, 2014 , we had $130.0 million of commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of june 28, 2014 was $ 2.8 billion, of which approximately 74 % was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement. in august 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $500.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2018 (the fiscal 2018 swap) to floating rate debt. this transaction was entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. this transaction was designated as a fair value hedges since the swap hedges against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. as of june 28, 2014, the fiscal 2018 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $4.8 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 5.25% and the floating interest rate on the swap is six-month libor which resets every six months in arrears. in january 2014, in contemplation of securing financing and hedging interest rate risk relating to our assumption or refinancing of us foods inc. net debt that will occur upon closing of the proposed merger (discussed in note 4, acquisitions ), we entered into two forward starting swap agreements with notional amounts totaling of $2.0 billion. we designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on 10-year and 30-year debt expected to be issued in fiscal 2015. these forward starting swaps were recognized as a liability within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within accrued expenses of $133.5 million. 49 the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 28, 2014. all amounts are stated in united states (u.s.) dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 28, 2014 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 303,012 $ 2,603 $ 2,076 $ 1,540 $ 251,076 $ 1,473,230 $ 2,033,537 $ 2,293,942 average interest rate 1.8 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 5.7 % 5.5 % 5.1 % 5.5 % floating rate debt (1) $ 129,999 $ - $ - $ 503,587 $ - $ - $ 633,586 $ 633,586 average interest rate 0.2 % - - 3.7 % - - 2.9 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,716 $ 1,723 $ 1,368 $ 1,351 $ 1,410 $ 13,862 $ 21,430 $ 24,174 average interest rate 7.4 % 7.5 % 9.1 % 9.6 % 9.8 % 9.7 % 9.3 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 49 $ 342 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 391 $ 441 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % - - - - 3.8 % floating rate debt $ 70,975 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 70,975 $ 70,975 average interest rate 1.0 % - - - - - 1.0 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of june 28, 2014 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ - $ - $ - $ 500,000 $ - $ - $ 500,000 $ 4,828 average variable rate paid: rate a plus - - - 3.2 % - - 3.2 % fixed rate received - - - 5.3 % - - 5.3 % interest rate swaps related to forecasted debt issuance: pay fixed/receive variable $ 2,000,000 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 2,000,000 $ (133,466) fixed rate paid rate b - - - - - rate b average variable rate received rate c - - - - - rate c rate a six-month libor rate b - fixed rate on $1.0 billion swap on 10-year forecasted debt expected to be issued in fiscal 2015 is 3.381%. fixed rate on $1.0 billion swap on 30-year forecasted debt expected to be issued in fiscal 2015 is 3.896%. rate c three-month libor 50 fiscal 2013 as of june 29, 2013 , we had $95.5 million of commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of june 29, 2013 was $ 2.9 billion, of which approximately 88 % was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement. in fiscal 2010, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $200 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 (the fiscal 2014 swap) to floating rate debt. this transaction was entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and was designated as a fair value hedge since the swap hedges against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. as of june 29, 2013 , the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized a an asset withi n the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within prepaid expenses and other current assets of $3.0 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6 % and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 29, 2013. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 29, 2013 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 3,251 $ 301,632 $ 1,856 $ 1,149 $ 498,867 $ 1,719,270 $ 2,526,025 $ 2,838,162 average interest rate 4.4 % 0.8 % 4.4 % 4.2 % 5.4 % 5.2 % 4.7 % floating rate debt (1) $ 297,690 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 297,690 $ 301,364 average interest rate 1.5 % - - - - - 1.5 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,396 $ 1,520 $ 1,430 $ 1,345 $ 1,312 $ 15,410 $ 22,413 $ 25,183 average interest rate 8.0 % 7.7 % 8.6 % 9.1 % 9.7 % 9.7 % 9.4 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 464 $ 695 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 1,159 $ 1,302 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.8 % - - - - 3.8 % floating rate debt $ 41,632 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 41,632 $ 41,632 average interest rate 1.0 % - - - - - 1.0 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements. interest rate position as of june 29, 2013 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 200,000 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 200,000 $ 2,988 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 2.1 % - - - - - 2.1 % fixed rate received 4.6 % - - - - - 4.6 % rate a three-month libor foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. do llars negatively impac ted sales by 0.7% in fiscal 2014 when compared to fiscal 2013. the changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales in fisc al 2013 when compared to fiscal 2012 . the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share w as not material in fi scal 2014 or fiscal 2013 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2014 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2014 sales by 1.1 % and woul d not have materially impa cted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share . we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. 51 fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.7% of sales. fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by ysco increased by approximately $ 16.5 million in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013 and by $ 18.9 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. our activities to mitigate fuel costs include reducing miles driven by our trucks through our routing optimization project, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 28, 2014, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $187 million through june 2015. these contracts will lock in the price of approximately 60% to 65% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices slightly lower than the current market price for diesel. our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price at a later date. using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of $20 million to $30 million in our fuel costs. investment risk our company-sponsored qualified pension p lan (retirement plan) holds investments in public and private equity , fixed income securities and real estate funds. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability . f luctuations in asset values can caus e the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end , which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments h e ld by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan fiscal year end (december 31, 2013 ) wo uld not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2015; however, this unfavorable change would increa se our pension expense for fiscal 2015 by $ 31.0 million and would reduce our shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of june 28, 2014 by $ 181.0 million . 52risk factors 6 risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified within "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability . volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in the u.s., as well as unfavorable conditions in particular local markets, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition the foodservice distribution industry, which is characterized by relatively low profit margins with limited demand growth expected in the near-term, is especially susceptible to negative trends and economic uncertainty. the u.s. has experienced an uneven economic environment over the past several years. in addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products. heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers, vendors and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. the uncertainty in the economic environment has adversely affected the rate of improvement in both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . the foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional, multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion 6 by existing competitors, are low. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), and group purchasing organizations have served to further increase pressure on the industry's profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers' ability to absorb cost increases. new and increasing competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs . volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. we require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. if fuel costs increase in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current forward price for diesel. if fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases will result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. business and operational risks conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs . we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, animal disease outbreaks, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings . maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business. the sysco brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to activities by our operations, employees, suppliers or agents could tarnish our reputation and diminish the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of sysco products) or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically. 7 damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers' confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. unfavorable changes to the mix of locally-managed customers versus corporate-managed customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. gross margin from our corporate-managed customers is generally lower than that of our locally-managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally-managed customers. if sales to our locally-managed customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our corporate-managed customers, our operating margins may decline. moreover, if sales to our corporate-managed customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally-managed customers, we will become more dependent on corporate-managed customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. additionally, the loss of sales to the larger of these corporate-managed customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. in that event, we would need to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases or our gross margins and profitability could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. we may not realize anticipated benefits from our operating cost reduction efforts . we have implemented, and expect to implement in the future, cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. our future success and earnings growth will be significantly impacted by our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and low growth rates. a variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings, including, among other things, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time and unexpected costs associated with operating our business. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. furthermore, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction efforts, we may experience an adverse effect on our employees, customers and suppliers, which could negatively affect our sales and profits. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful . in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse effect on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include 8 the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. product liability claims could materially impact our business . we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business . we are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively . historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely affected. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco's. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. we need access to borrowed funds to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity . a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . 9 as described in note 11, debt and other financing arrangements, as of june 27, 2015 , we had approximately $7.3 billion of total indebtedness which included a commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.5 billion ; a revolving credit facility supporting our united states and canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.5 billion scheduled to expire on december 29, 2018 , and various other smaller bank facilities. in july 2015, we redeemed $5.0 billion in senior notes using cash on hand and the proceeds from borrowings under our commercial paper program. our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions or joint ventures, and we expect to incur additional indebtedness to fund our repurchase of up to $3 billion in sysco common stock announced in june 2015 . our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of future debt financing and financial results, and our credit ratings may be adversely affected as a result of the incurrence of additional indebtedness. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our liquidity can be negatively impacted by payments required to appeal tax assessments with certain tax jurisdictions . certain tax jurisdictions require partial to full payment of audit assessments or the posting of letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. sysco has posted approximately $90 million in letters of credit to appeal the canadian revenue agency assessments of transfer pricing adjustments relating to our cross border procurement activities through our former purchasing cooperative on our 2004 through 2009 fiscal years. if assessed on later years currently under examination using these same positions, we could have to pay cash or post additional letters of credit of as much as $16 million , in order to appeal these further assessments. if significant further payments are required, the company's financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. we rely on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business . our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely affect our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits. furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement an enterprise resource planning (erp) system. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. a cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers . we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans . 10 we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2015 , our total contributions to these plans were approximately $38.1 million , which included payments for withdrawal liabilities of $1.4 million . the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $245 million as of june 27, 2015 . a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines . at the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s. based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $3.2 billion as of june 27, 2015 ; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. see note 14, company-sponsored employee benefit plans to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the retirement plan. the amount of our annual contribution to the retirement plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the retirement plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. our retirement plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the retirement plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse effect on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages . as of june 27, 2015 , approximately 9,446 employees at 55 operating companies were members of 58 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2016 , 24 agreements covering approximately 3,500 employees have expired or will expire. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively affect our business and materially reduce earnings . the future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our employee recruitment, development and retention efforts may not be successful, resulting in a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco's ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. 11 our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco's board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, which could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2015 as of june 27, 2015 , we had no commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of june 27, 2015 was $7.3 billion , of which approximately 74% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement. included in the total debt amount is $5.0 billion in senior notes that were issued in october 2014 , for the proposed merger with us foods. the october 2014 senior notes contained mandatory redemption features providing that, on the earlier of the merger agreement termination date or october 8, 2015 , we were required to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal of the senior notes plus accrued interest. in june 2015, we terminated the merger agreement and redeemed the senior notes in july 2015 using cash on hand and the proceeds from borrowings under our commercial paper facility. in august 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $500.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2018 to floating rate debt. in october 2014, we also entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $500.0 million of the new senior notes maturing on october 2, 2017 and $750.0 million of the new senior notes maturing on october 2, 2019 to floating rate debt (2014 swaps). these transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. these transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the change in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. our 2014 swaps were terminated in july 2015. details of our outstanding swap agreements at june 27, 2015, are below: maturity date of swap notional value (in millions) fixed coupon rate on hedged debt floating interest rate on swap floating rate reset terms location of fair value on balance sheet fair value of asset (liability) (in thousands) october 2, 2017 $ 500 1.45 % three-month libor every three months in arrears other assets $ 2,419 february 12, 2018 500 5.25 % six-month libor every six months in advance other assets 4,275 october 2, 2019 750 2.35 % three-month libor every three months in advance other assets 5,903 45 in january 2014 , in contemplation of securing financing and hedging interest rate risk relating to our assumption or refinancing of the net debt of us foods that was scheduled to occur upon closing of the proposed merger (discussed in note 4, acquisitions ), we entered into two forward starting swap agreements with notional amounts totaling $2.0 billion . we designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on 10 -year and 30 -year debt issued in fiscal 2015. in september 2014, in conjunction with the pricing of the $1.25 billion senior notes maturing on october 2, 2024 and $1 billion senior notes maturing october 2, 2044, we terminated these swaps, locking in the effective yields on the related debt. cash of $58.9 million was paid to settle the 10 -year swap in september 2014, and cash of $129.9 million was paid to settle the 30 -year swap in october 2014. the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 27, 2015 . all amounts are stated in united states (u.s.) dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 27, 2015 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 3,713,525 $ 4,258 $ 3,017 $ 250,874 $ 1,399 $ 1,460,334 $ 5,433,407 $ 5,675,462 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.6 % 4.4 % 5.5 % 6.1 % 5.1 % 4.5 % floating rate debt (1) $ 1,254,138 $ 21,794 $ 503,875 $ 15,094 $ $ $ 1,794,901 $ 1,794,902 average interest rate 2.0 % 3.9 % 5.4 % 2.9 % 3.0 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,456 $ 1,475 $ 1,325 $ 1,268 $ 1,350 $ 10,717 $ 17,590 $ 18,374 average interest rate 8.3 % 8.3 % 9.0 % 9.6 % 9.7 % 9.8 % 9.5 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of june 27, 2015 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 1,250,000 500,000 $ $ $ 1,750,000 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 3.2 % rate b plus (1) fixed rate received (2) 5.25 % rate a six-month libor rate b three-month libor (1) 0.22% for notional amount of $500,000 maturing on october 2, 2017 and .046% for notional amount of $750,000 maturing on october 2, 2019 (2) 1.45% for notional amount of $500,000 maturing on october 2, 2017 and 2.35% for notional amount of $750,000 maturing on october 2, 2019 in august 2015, the company entered into two forward starting swap agreements with notional amounts totaling $500 million. the company designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges to reduce interest rate exposure on forecasted 10 -year debt due to changes in the benchmark interest rates for debt the company expects to issue in fiscal 2016. 46 foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary's functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders' equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1.0% in fiscal 2015 when compared to fiscal 2014 . the exchange rate used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively impacted sales by 0.7% in fiscal 2014 when compared to fiscal 2013 . the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2015 or fiscal 2014 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2015 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2015 sales by 1.2% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2015 fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.6% of sales. for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 , these costs represented approximately 0.7% of sales. our activities to mitigate fuel costs include routing optimization with the goal of reducing miles driven, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 27, 2015 , we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $99.3 million through june 2016. these contracts will lock in the price of approximately 40% to 45% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices slightly lower than the current market price for diesel. our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price at a later date. using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of approximately $15 million in our fuel costs on our non-contracted volumes. investment risk our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan's funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan's fiscal year end (december 31, 2014) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2016 ; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2016 by $31.0 million and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of june 27, 2015 by $300.3 million . 47risk factors 7 risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified within "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability. volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our results of operations to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our results of operations may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in the u.s., canada and europe, as well as unfavorable conditions in particular local markets, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the foodservice distribution industry, which is characterized by relatively low profit margins with limited demand growth expected in the near-term, is especially susceptible to negative trends and economic uncertainty. north america and europe have each experienced an uneven economic environment over the past several years. in addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by regional operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products. heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers, vendors and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. the uncertainty in the economic environment has adversely affected the rate of improvement in both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations resulting from the uk's exit from the european union could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the results of the referendum on june 23, 2016 in the united kingdom (the uk) to exit the european union (the eu) and to potentially otherwise significantly change its relationship with the eu and its laws and regulations impacting business conducted between the uk and eu countries could disrupt the overall stability of the eu given the diverse economic and political circumstances of individual eu countries and otherwise negatively impact our european operations, including the brakes group. if changes occur in laws and regulations impacting the flow of goods, services and workers between the uk and the eu, our european operations could also be negatively impacted. if a country within the eu were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, or if the euro currency were to be dissolved entirely, the impact on markets around the world could be material. the completion of the uk's exit from the eu could have less severe, but still significant, implications. such exit could adversely 7 affect the value of our euro- and pound-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, such exit could cause financial and capital markets within and outside the eu to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact the foodservice distribution industry. any one of these impacts could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . the foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional, multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. local and regional companies often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups, with the goal of enhancing their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies, and ability to meet customer distribution requirements. these suppliers may also rely on local presence as a source of competitive advantage, and they may have lower costs and other competitive advantages due to geographic proximity. furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), cash and carry operations and group purchasing organizations have served to further increase pressure on the industry's profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we also experience competition from online direct food wholesalers. finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers' ability to absorb cost increases. new and increasing competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are able to effectively differentiate ourselves, we may only be able to do so through increased expenditures or decreased prices, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs . volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. we require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. if fuel costs increase in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current forward price for diesel. in the future, we may also enter into other fuel hedging arrangements, including fuel derivatives, to hedge our exposure to volatile fuel prices. there can be no assurance that our fuel hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices, and if fuel prices decrease significantly, these hedging arrangements would result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. in addition, our future use of fuel derivatives would expose us to the risk that one of our counterparties fails to perform its obligations, whether due to its insolvency or otherwise, which could result in financial losses. business and operational risks conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs . we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production and increases 8 in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, animal disease outbreaks, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings . maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business. sysco's brand names, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to activities by our operations, employees, suppliers or agents could tarnish our reputation and diminish the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our results of operations. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) or injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of sysco products) or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our results of operations to decrease dramatically. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity, including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers' confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. unfavorable changes to the mix of locally-managed customers versus corporate-managed customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. gross margin from our corporate-managed customers is generally lower than that of our locally-managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally-managed customers. if sales to our locally-managed customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our corporate-managed customers, our operating margins may decline. moreover, if sales to our corporate-managed customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally-managed customers, we will become more dependent on corporate-managed customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. additionally, the loss of sales to the larger of these corporate-managed customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. in that event, if we were unable to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. we may not be able to achieve our three-year financial targets by the end of fiscal year 2018. 9 in fiscal 2016, we set new three-year financial targets to grow operating income, accelerate earnings per share growth faster than operating income growth and improve return on invested capital. our ability to meet these financial targets depends largely on our successful execution of our business plan including various related initiatives. there are various risks related to these efforts, including the risk that these efforts may not provide the expected benefits in our anticipated time frame, if at all, and may prove costlier than expected; and the risk of adverse effects to our business, results of operations and liquidity if past and future undertakings, and the associated changes to our business, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. our intentions and expectations with regard to the execution of our business plan, and the timing of any related initiatives, are subject to change at any time based on management's subjective evaluation of our overall business needs. if we are unable to successfully execute our business plan, whether due to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from our various business initiatives in the anticipated time frame or otherwise, we may be unable to achieve our three-year financial targets. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful . an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations, of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse effect on the financial results of our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. if the products distributed by us are alleged to have caused injury or illness, or to have failed to comply with governmental regulations, we may need to recall our products and may experience product liability claims. we, like any other foodservice distributor, may be subject to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, if the products we distribute are alleged to have caused injury or illness, to have been mislabeled, misbranded, or adulterated or to otherwise have violated applicable governmental regulations. we may also choose to voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we determine do not satisfy our quality standards, whether for taste, appearance, or otherwise, in order to protect our brand and reputation. any future product recall or withdrawal that results in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, damage to our reputation, and/or lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we also face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco are alleged to have caused injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 10 if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business . we are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, transportation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. for a detailed discussion of the laws and regulations to which our business is subject, please refer to business - government regulation in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, or seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties or third-party claims for non-compliance. our operations are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing: the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, and water; the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes; employee exposure to hazards in the workplace; and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of petroleum products and other regulated materials. in the course of our operations, we operate, maintain, and fuel fleet vehicles; store fuel in on-site above and underground storage tanks; operate refrigeration systems, and use and dispose of hazardous substances and food wastes. we could incur substantial costs, including fines or penalties and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of any violations of environmental or workplace safety laws and regulations or releases of regulated materials into the environment. in addition, we could incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to environmental conditions at our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively . historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely affected. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco's. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. 11 we need access to borrowed funds to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity . a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . as described in note 11, debt and other financing arrangements, as of july 2, 2016 , we had approximately $7.4 billion of total indebtedness which included a commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.5 billion ; a revolving credit facility supporting our united states and canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.5 billion scheduled to expire on december 29, 2018 , and various other smaller bank facilities. our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences for us, including: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions or joint ventures, and we expect to incur additional indebtedness to fund the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion in sysco common stock under the $3 billion share repurchase program announced in june 2015 . our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of future debt financing and financial results, and our credit ratings may be adversely affected as a result of the incurrence of additional indebtedness. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. we rely on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business . our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, to manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. these systems are vulnerable to disruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, cyber attacks, and viruses. any such disruption to these software and other technology systems, or the failure of these systems to otherwise perform as anticipated, could adversely affect our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on our results of operations. additionally, information technology systems continue to evolve and, in order to remain competitive, we must implement new technologies in a timely and efficient manner. if our competitors implement new technologies more quickly or successfully than we do, such competitors may be able to provide lower cost or enhanced services of superior quality compared to those we provide, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. a cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers . we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. such uses give rise to 12 cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans . we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 9% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2016 , our total contributions to these plans were approximately $41.0 million and there were no payments for withdrawal liabilities. the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $225 million as of july 2, 2016 . a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines . at the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s. based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $3.8 billion as of july 2, 2016 ; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. see note 14, company-sponsored employee benefit plans to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the retirement plan. the amount of our annual contribution to the retirement plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the retirement plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. our retirement plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the retirement plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse effect on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages . as of july 2, 2016 , approximately 8,953 employees at 50 operating companies were members of 52 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2017 , 13 a greements covering approximately 1,800 em ployees have expired or will expire. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these 13 contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively affect our business and materially reduce earnings . the future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our employee recruitment, development and retention efforts may not be successful, resulting in a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco's ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our results of operations. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco's board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 hares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, which could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our market risks consist of interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, fuel price risk and investment risk. interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. 46 we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at july 2, 2016 , there were no commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of july 2, 2016 was $7.4 billion , of which approximately 68% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. as of june 27, 2015 , we had no commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of june 27, 2015 was $7.3 billion , of which approximately 74% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement. included in the total debt amount is $5.0 billion in senior notes that were issued in october 2014 , for the proposed merger with us foods. the october 2014 senior notes contained mandatory redemption features providing that, on the earlier of the merger agreement termination date or october 8, 2015 , we were required to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal of the senior notes plus accrued interest. in june 2015 , we terminated the merger agreement and redeemed the senior notes in july 2015 using cash on hand and the proceeds from borrowings under our commercial paper facility. details of our outstanding swap agreements as of july 2, 2016 are below: maturity date of swap notional value (in millions) fixed coupon rate on hedged debt floating interest rate on swap floating rate reset terms location of fair value on balance sheet fair value of asset (liability) (in thousands) february 12, 2018 $ 500 5.25 % six-month libor every six months in arrears other assets $ 7,492 october 1, 2020 750 2.60 three-month libor every three months in advance other assets 16,552 july 15, 2021 500 2.50 three-month libor every three months in advance other assets 8,980 april 1, 2019 500 1.90 three-month libor every three months in advance other assets 3,781 we receive or pay amounts on these interest rate swap agreements on a semi-annual basis. as noted in note 9 , "derivative financial instruments" , the company terminated interest rate swap agreements used to hedge senior notes issued in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . payments of $6.1 million were made in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . the following tables present our interest rate position as of july 2, 2016 . all amounts are stated in united states (u.s.) dollar equivalents. 47 interest rate position as of july 2, 2016 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 67 $ 50 $ 250,050 $ 70 $ 70 $ 4,225,210 $ 4,475,517 $ 4,972,343 average interest rate 5.4 % 4.3 % 4.3 % floating rate debt (1) $ 1,267 $ 529,382 $ 514,989 $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ 2,295,638 $ 2,295,638 average interest rate 3.9 % 5.2 % 2.0 % 2.6 % 2.5 % 3.0 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 245 $ 556,979 $ 557,224 $ 560,009 average interest rate 1.3 % 1.2 % floating rate debt $ 89,117 $ 89,117 $ 89,117 average interest rate 1.1 % 1.1 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of july 2, 2016 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 500,000 $ 500,000 $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ 2,250,000 $ 36,805 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 3.24 % 3.24 % rate b plus 0.8 % 1.12 % 1.13 % 1.03 % fixed rate received 5.25 % 1.9 % 2.6 % 2.5 % 3.01 % rate a six-month libor rate b - three month libor foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary's functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders' equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1.3% in fiscal 2016 when compared to fiscal 2015 . the exchange rate used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1% in fiscal 2015 when compared to fiscal 2014 . the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2016 or fiscal 2015 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2016 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2016 sales by 4% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. the brakes acquisition required payment in pounds sterling, euro and swedish kroner. the company developed a strategy to hedge the currency exposure related to these cash outlays. a portion of this strategy included foreign currency option contracts to protect sysco from an increase in the foreign exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and the pound sterling. this helped provide downside protection during the time frame the transaction was being reviewed for anti-trust approval and thereafter during the 48 volatility around the referendum on june 23, 2016 in the united kingdom to exit the european union (the u.k. referendum). such contracts were considered economic hedges and did not qualify for hedge accounting. in fiscal 2016, the total realized net loss on our economic hedge foreign exchange option contracts was $45.7 million . these contracts were terminated at or near the company's fiscal year end and did not have a material fair value as of july 2, 2016. a second part of our strategy was to accumulate the currency needed for the acquisition once anti-trust approval was received. this accumulation occurred over a period of time prior to, as well as after, the u.k. referendum. during this period, the currency rates experienced large fluctuations, particularly with regard to the pound sterling. our approach allowed us to accumulate this cash at an average rate that was better than our target exchange rate established at the time the transaction was announced. we were required to remeasure this foreign denominated cash into u.s. dollars at the conclusion of the fiscal year and incurred a remeasurement loss of $101.2 million . both of these related to our purchase price for the acquisition of the brakes group, which closed shortly after our fiscal year end. with this cash now expended, we no longer have a significant amount of foreign cash that would require remeasurement. our brakes acquisition will create additional foreign currency exposure. subsequent to fiscal 2016 , we designated 500 million of euro notes issued in june 2016 and various intercompany notes as hedges of a portion of our net investment in euro-denominated and sterling-denominated foreign operations to reduce foreign currency risk associated with the investment in these operations. changes in the value of these debt items resulting from fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates to u.s. dollar exchange rates will be recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). subsequent to fiscal 2016 , we entered into various cross currency swaps to mitigate the risk of exchange rate changes when an intercompany loan is not in the functional currency of one of our subsidiaries. these have been designated as cash flow hedges with changes to be recorded within foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). additional cross currency swaps were entered into to create additional net investment hedges. fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 , fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.5% and 0.6% of sales, respectively. our activities to mitigate fuel costs include routing optimization with the goal of reducing miles driven, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of july 2, 2016 , we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $84.9 million through may 2017. these contracts will lock in the price of approximately 45% of our fuel purchase needs for fiscal 2017 . our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price or hedged at a later date. using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of approximately $13.8 million in our fuel costs on our non-contracted volumes. investment risk our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan's funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan's fiscal year end (december 31, 2015) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2016 ; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2016 by $32.1 million and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of july 2, 2016 by $311.5 million . 49risk factors 7 risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified within "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability. volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of significant product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our results of operations to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our results of operations may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. 7 unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in the u.s., canada and europe, as well as unfavorable conditions in particular local markets, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the foodservice distribution industry, which is characterized by relatively low profit margins with limited demand growth expected in the near-term, is especially susceptible to negative trends and economic uncertainty. north america and europe have each experienced an uneven economic environment over the past several years. in addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by regional operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products. heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the collection of funds from such customers. liquidity issues and the inability of our suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to obtain the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we believe that uncertainty in the economic environment over the past several years has adversely affected the rate of improvement in both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity in the future. economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations resulting from the u.k.'s exit from the european union could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the u.k.'s anticipated exit from the european union (the eu) and the resulting significant change to the u.k.'s relationship with the eu and with countries outside the eu (and its laws and regulations impacting business conducted between them) could disrupt the overall stability of the u.k. and the eu given the diverse economic and political circumstances of the u.k. and individual eu countries and otherwise negatively impact our european operations, including the brakes group. if changes occur in laws and regulations impacting the flow of goods, services and workers between the u.k. and the eu, our european operations could also be negatively impacted. the completion of the u.k.'s exit from the eu could have less severe, but still significant, implications. such exit could adversely affect the value of our euro- and pound-denominated assets and obligations. exchange rates related to the british pound sterling have been more volatile since the u.k. announced it would exit the eu and such volatility may continue in the future. future fluctuations in the exchange rate between the british pound sterling and the local currencies of our suppliers may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold in the u.k., which increases we may not be able to pass on to our customers. in addition, the u.k.'s exit from the eu could cause financial and capital markets within and outside the eu to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and also could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact the foodservice distribution industry. any one of these impacts could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . the foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional, multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. local and regional companies often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups, with the goal of enhancing their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies, and ability to meet customer distribution requirements. these suppliers may also rely on local presence as a source of competitive advantage, and they may have lower costs and other competitive advantages due to geographic proximity. furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), cash and carry operations and group purchasing organizations have served to further increase pressure on the industry's profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are also experiencing growing competition from online direct food wholesalers. finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers' ability to absorb cost increases. new and increasing competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or 8 may require increased discounting or other concessions. such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are able to effectively differentiate ourselves, we may only be able to do so through increased expenditures or decreased prices, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and fuel hedging arrangements intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs . volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. we require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. if fuel costs increase in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations. we routinely enter into fuel hedging arrangements, including fuel derivatives, to hedge our exposure to volatile fuel prices. there can be no assurance that our fuel hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices, and if fuel prices decrease significantly, these hedging arrangements would result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. in addition, our future use of fuel derivatives would expose us to the risk that one of our counterparties fails to perform its obligations, whether due to its insolvency or otherwise, which could result in financial losses. business and operational risks conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs . we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, animal disease outbreaks, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands, terrorist attacks or international hostilities and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. in addition, as a foodservice distributor, it is necessary for us to maintain an inventory of products, and declines in product pricing levels between the time we purchase the product from our suppliers and the time we sell the product to our customers could reduce our margin on that inventory, adversely affecting our results of operations. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings . maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business. sysco's brand names, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to illegal or unethical activities by our employees, suppliers or agents, could tarnish our reputation and diminish the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our results of operations. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) or injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, 9 our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of sysco products) or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our results of operations to decrease dramatically. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity, including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers' confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our relationships with long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated. we have long-standing relationships with a number of our customers, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time. market competition, customer requirements, customer financial condition and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions also could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand these relationships. there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers on acceptable terms, or at all, or collect amounts owed to us from insolvent customers. our customer agreements are generally terminable upon advance written notice (typically ranging from 30 days to six months) by either us or the customer, which provides our customers with the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us on less favorable terms or to award more business to our competitors. the loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. unfavorable changes to the mix of locally managed customers versus multi-unit customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. increasing the volume of our sales to locally managed customers is very important for our business and our results of operations. gross margin from our multi-unit customers is generally lower than that of our locally managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally managed customers. if sales to our locally managed customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our multi-unit customers, our operating margins may decline. moreover, if sales to our multi-unit customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally-managed customers, we will become more dependent on multi-unit customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. additionally, the loss of sales to the larger of these multi-unit customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. in that event, if we were unable to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. changes in consumer eating habits (such as a decline in consuming food away from home, a decline in portion sizes, or a shift in preferences toward restaurants that are not our customers) could reduce demand for our products. consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. there is a growing consumer preference for sustainable, organic and locally grown products, and a shift towards plant-based proteins and/or animal proteins derived from animals that were humanely treated and anti-biotic free. changing consumer eating habits also occur due to generational shifts. millennials, the largest demographic group in terms of spend, seek new and different, as well as more ethnic, menu options and menu innovation. if consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs and/or supply shortages associated with our efforts to accommodate those changes as our suppliers adapt to the new eating preferences. changing consumer eating habits may reduce the frequency with which consumers purchase meals outside of the home. additionally, changes in consumer eating habits may result in the enactment or 10 amendment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food products. compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as others regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, may be costly and time-consuming. we cannot make any assurances regarding our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or resulting new laws or regulations or to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. we may not be able to achieve our three-year financial targets by the end of fiscal year 2018. in fiscal 2016, we set new three-year financial targets to grow operating income, accelerate earnings per share growth faster than operating income growth and improve return on invested capital. our ability to meet these financial targets depends largely on our successful execution of our business plan including various related initiatives. there are various risks related to these efforts, including the risk that these efforts may not provide the expected benefits in our anticipated time frame, if at all, and may prove costlier than expected; and the risk of adverse effects to our business, results of operations and liquidity if past and future undertakings, and the associated changes to our business, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. our intentions and expectations with regard to the execution of our business plan, and the timing of any related initiatives, are subject to change at any time based on management's subjective evaluation of our overall business needs. if we are unable to successfully execute our business plan, whether due to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from our various business initiatives in the anticipated time frame or otherwise, we may be unable to achieve our three-year financial targets. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful . as demonstrated by our acquisition of the brakes group, an element of our strategy includes further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations, of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse effect on the financial results of our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the u.s. and many countries in the eu where we do business, are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. in particular, reforming the taxation of international businesses has been a priority for u.s. politicians, and key members of the legislative and executive branches have proposed a wide variety of potential changes, some of which could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination could change if tax laws or tax rulings were to be modified. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. 11 if the products distributed by us are alleged to have caused injury or illness, or to have failed to comply with governmental regulations, we may need to recall our products and may experience product liability claims. we, like any other foodservice distributor, may be subject to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, if the products we distribute are alleged to have caused injury or illness, to have been mislabeled, misbranded, or adulterated or to otherwise have violated applicable governmental regulations. we may also choose to voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we determine do not satisfy our quality standards, whether for taste, appearance, or otherwise, in order to protect our brand and reputation. any future product recall or withdrawal that results in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, damage to our reputation, and/or lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we also face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco are alleged to have caused injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business . we are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial, regional and local governments in the countries in which we operate with respect to many aspects of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, ethical business practices, transportation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. for a detailed discussion of the laws and regulations to which our business is subject, please refer to business - government regulation in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, or seizures or debarments from contracting with such government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties or third-party claims for non-compliance. our operations are subject to various federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the various countries in which we operate relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing: the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, and water; the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes; employee exposure to hazards in the workplace; and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of petroleum products and other regulated materials. 12 in the course of our operations, we operate, maintain, and fuel fleet vehicles; store fuel in on-site above and underground storage tanks; operate refrigeration systems, and use and dispose of hazardous substances and food wastes. we could incur substantial costs, including fines or penalties and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of any violations of environmental or workplace safety laws and regulations or releases of regulated materials into the environment. in addition, we could incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to environmental conditions at our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. for example, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products, which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks (including the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination associated with the use of underground storage tanks). certain of these laws and regulations in the european union and the brakes principal regions may impose liability for costs (which could be material) of investigation or remediation of contamination regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal, and even if such contamination was present prior to the commencement of brakes' operations at the site and was not caused by its activities. in addition, many of our facilities have propane and battery powered forklifts. proposed or recently enacted legal requirements, such as those requiring the phase-out of certain ozone-depleting substances, and proposals for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to upgrade or replace equipment, or may increase our transportation or other operating costs. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively . historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely affected. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco's. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. in addition, our failure to implement effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures with respect to a significant acquired business, such as the brakes group, could result in material weaknesses and/or a failure to file our periodic reports with the sec on a timely basis. we need access to borrowed funds to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity . a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . as described in note 11 , "debt and other financing arrangements," as of july 1, 2017 , we had approximately $8.2 billion of total indebtedness which included a commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.0 billion ; a revolving credit facility supporting our u.s. commercial paper program in the amount of $2.0 billion scheduled to expire on november 2, 2021 , and various other smaller bank facilities. our substantial amount of debt could have important consequences for us, including: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, joint ventures and/or share repurchase programs. our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of future debt financing and financial results, and our credit ratings may be adversely affected as a result of the incurrence of additional 13 indebtedness. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. we rely on technology in our business and any cybersecurity incident, other technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers . we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, and our ability to serve customers most effectively depends on the reliability of our technology systems. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, to manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online platforms to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and customers. further, our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and our business partners. these technology systems and our uses thereof are vulnerable to disruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, espionage, cyber-attacks, viruses, theft and inadvertent release of information. any such disruption to these software and other technology systems, or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, the failure of these systems to otherwise perform as anticipated, or the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage, any or all of which would potentially adversely affect our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits. further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. while sysco has invested, and continues to invest, in technology security initiatives and other measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, as well as disaster recovery plans, these initiatives and measures may not be entirely effective to insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on our results of operations. additionally, information technology systems continue to evolve and, in order to remain competitive, we must implement new technologies in a timely and efficient manner. if our competitors implement new technologies more quickly or successfully than we do, such competitors may be able to provide lower cost or enhanced services of superior quality compared to those we provide, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans . we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 13% of our current u.s. employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2017 , our total contributions to these plans were approximately $44.6 million and, in may 2017, a sysco subsidiary voluntarily withdrew from a multiemployer pension plan and recorded a $35.6 million withdrawal liability. the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. we could also be treated as partially withdrawing from participation in one of these plans if the number of our employees participating in a given plan is reduced to a certain degree over a certain period of time. such reductions in the number of employees participating in these plans could occur as a result of changes in our business operations, such as facility closures or consolidations. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $147.9 million as of july 1, 2017 . a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines . at the end of fiscal 2012 , we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s. based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013 , these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $4.2 billion as of july 1, 2017 ; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. see note 14 , "company-sponsored employee benefit plans" to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the retirement plan. the amount of our annual contribution to the retirement plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the retirement plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. our retirement plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the retirement plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse effect on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages . as of july 1, 2017 , approximately 9,813 employees at 55 operating companies were members of 53 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. moreover, labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized, which could increase our labor costs. in fiscal 2018 , 12 agreements covering approximately 1,367 employees have expired or will expire. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively affect our business and materially reduce earnings . the future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our employee recruitment, development and retention efforts may not be successful, resulting in a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco's ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our results of operations. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco's board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, which could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our market risks consist of interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, fuel price risk and investment risk. interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at july 1, 2017 , there were $119.7 million in commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of july 1, 2017 was $8.2 billion , of which approximately 71% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. at july 2, 2016 , there were no commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of july 2, 2016 was $7.4 billion , of which approximately 68% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. details of our outstanding swap agreements as of july 1, 2017 are below: maturity date of swap notional value fixed coupon rate on hedged debt floating interest rate on swap floating rate reset terms location of fair value on balance sheet fair value of asset (liability) (in thousands) february 12, 2018 $ 500,000,000 5.25 % six-month libor every six months in arrears other current assets $ 707 april 1, 2019 500,000,000 1.90 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities (4,226 ) october 1, 2020 750,000,000 2.60 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities (7,449 ) july 15, 2021 500,000,000 2.50 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities (9,715 ) 53 we receive or pay amounts on these interest rate swap agreements on a semi-annual basis. the following tables present our interest rate position as of july 1, 2017 . all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 1, 2017 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 119,750 $ 250,050 $ 70 $ 70 $ 450,070 $ 4,525,140 $ 5,345,150 $ 5,552,832 average interest rate 1.4 % 5.4 % % % 2.6 % 4.3 % 4.1 % floating rate debt (1) $ 500,000 $ 500,000 $ $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ $ 2,250,000 $ 2,250,000 average interest rate 5.3 % 1.9 % % 2.6 % 2.5 % % 3.0 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 209 $ $ $ $ $ 571,177 $ 571,387 $ 575,835 average interest rate % % % % % 1.3 % 1.2 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of july 1, 2017 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 500,000 $ 500,000 $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ $ $ 2,250,000 $ (20,683 ) average variable rate paid: rate a plus 3.24 % % % % % % 3.24 % % rate b plus % 0.8 % 1.12 % 1.13 % % % 1.03 % % fixed rate received 5.25 % 1.9 % 2.6 % 2.5 % % % 3.01 % % rate a six-month libor rate b three-month libor foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary's functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders' equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our largest currency exposures are with canadian dollars, british pound sterling and euro currencies. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.1% in fiscal 2017 when compared to fiscal 2016 . the exchange rate used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1.3% in fiscal 2016 when compared to fiscal 2015 . the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2017 or fiscal 2016 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2017 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2017 sales by 1.8% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. our brakes acquisition created additional foreign currency exposure. in fiscal 2017 , we designated 500 million of euro notes issued in june 2016 and various cross currency swaps as hedges of a portion of our net investment in euro-denominated and sterling-denominated foreign operations to reduce foreign currency risk associated with the investment in these operations. changes in the value of these items resulting from fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates to u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded 54 as foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). in fiscal 2017 , we entered into various cross currency swaps to mitigate the risk of exchange rate changes for an intercompany loan that is not in the functional currency of one of our subsidiaries. these have been designated as cash flow hedges with changes recorded within foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.5% of sales during both fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 . our activities to mitigate fuel costs include routing optimization with the goal of reducing miles driven, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. during fiscal 2017 , we began entering into diesel fuel swaps for fiscal 2018 for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of july 1, 2017 , we had diesel fuel swaps with a total notional amount of approximately $78.0 million through june 2018 . these swaps will lock in the price of approximately 55% to 60% of our projected fuel purchase needs for fiscal 2018 . our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price or hedged at a later date. using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of approximately $8.6 million in our fuel costs on our non-contracted volumes. investment risk our company-sponsored qualified pension plans (u.s. retirement plan and u.k. retirement plan) hold various investments, including public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan's funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plans at the plan's fiscal year end ( december 31, 2016 ) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2018 ; however, such an unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2018 by $34.0 million and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of july 1, 2017 by $334.2 million . an unfavorable change in the fair value of our u.k. plan assets would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2018 by $2.1 million and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet, as of july 1, 2017 , by $25.9 million . 55risk factors 7 risk factors - business and operational risks - we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties, or third-party claims for non-compliance. general we have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance, including the sysco and brakes trademarks, in addition to our privately branded product trademarks that include these trademarks. these trademarks and the private brands on which they are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry. in north america, approximately half of our privately branded sales are from products labeled with our sysco trademark without any other trademark. we believe the loss of the sysco trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in europe, approximately 26% of our privately branded european sales are from products labeled with the brakes trademark. both our u.s. and european trademarks are effective for a ten-year period and the company generally renews its trademarks before their expiration dates unless a particular trademark is no longer in use. the company does not have any material patents or licenses. we are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products. our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, the business of the company is not deemed to be seasonal. as of june 30, 2018 , we operated 332 distribution facilities throughout north america and europe. 6 item 1a. risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks our industry is characterized by low margins, and periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability. the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of significant product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our results of operations to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers in a timely manner. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our results of operations may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in north america and europe, as well as unfavorable conditions in particular local markets, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the foodservice industry is characterized by relatively low profit margins with modest demand growth expected in the near-term, and, consequently, our results of operations are susceptible to regional, national and international economic trends and uncertainties. economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products. heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the collection of funds from such customers. liquidity issues and the inability of our suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to obtain the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. historically, north america and europe have experienced, from time to time, deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in their financial markets, which adversely impacted business and consumer confidence and spending and depressed capital investment and economic activity in the affected regions. if similar unfavorable economic conditions were to arise in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations resulting from the u.k.'s exit from the european union (the eu) could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the u.k.'s anticipated exit from the eu and the resulting significant change to the u.k.'s relationship with the eu and with countries outside the eu (and its laws and regulations impacting business conducted between them) could disrupt the overall stability of the u.k. and the eu and otherwise negatively impact our european operations. if changes occur in laws and regulations impacting the flow of goods, services and workers between the u.k. and the eu, our european operations could also be negatively impacted. the completion of the u.k.'s exit from the eu could adversely affect the value of our euro- and pound-denominated assets and obligations. exchange rates related to the british pound sterling have been more volatile since the u.k. announced it 7 would exit the eu and such volatility may continue in the future. future fluctuations in the exchange rate between the british pound sterling and the local currencies of our suppliers may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold in the u.k., which increases we may not be able to pass on to our customers. in addition, the u.k.'s exit from the eu could cause financial and capital markets within and outside the eu to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact the foodservice distribution industry. any one of these impacts could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. competition and the impact of gpos may reduce our margins and make it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . the foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional and multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. local and regional companies often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups, with the goal of enhancing their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies and ability to meet customer distribution requirements. these suppliers may also rely on local presence as a source of competitive advantage, and they may have lower costs and other competitive advantages due to geographic proximity. furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), online direct food wholesalers and cash and carry operations have served to further increase pressure on the industry's profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. moreover, some of our customers purchase their products from us through group purchasing organizations, or gpos, in an effort to lower the prices paid by these customers on their foodservice orders. gpos have a relatively larger presence in the healthcare, lodging and foodservice management customer segments. if these gpos are able to add a significant number of our customers as members, it may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers' ability to absorb cost increases. new and increasing competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting or other concessions. such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are able to effectively differentiate ourselves, we may only be able to do so through increased expenditures or decreased prices, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and fuel hedging arrangements intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs . volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. we require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past through, among other things, our fuel surcharge program, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. if fuel costs increase in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations. we routinely enter into fuel hedging arrangements, including fuel derivatives, to hedge our exposure to volatile fuel prices. there can be no assurance that our fuel hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices, and if fuel prices decrease significantly, these hedging arrangements would result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. in addition, our future use of fuel derivatives would expose us to the risk that one of our counterparties fails to perform its obligations, whether due to its insolvency or otherwise, which could result in financial losses. business and operational risks conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs . 8 we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include shortages of qualified labor for our suppliers, work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, animal disease outbreaks, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands, terrorist attacks or international hostilities and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. additionally, we procure products from suppliers outside of the united states (u.s.), and we are subject to the risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, any or all of which could delay our receipt of product or increase our input costs. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. in addition, as a foodservice distributor, it is necessary for us to maintain an inventory of products, and declines in product pricing levels between the time we purchase the product from our suppliers and the time we sell the product to our customers could reduce our margin on that inventory, adversely affecting our results of operations. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings . maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business. sysco's brand names, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to illegal or unethical activities by our employees, suppliers or agents, could tarnish our reputation and diminish the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our results of operations. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) or injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of sysco products) or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our results of operations to decrease dramatically. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity, including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers' confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our relationships with long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated. we have long-standing relationships with a number of our customers, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time. market competition, customer requirements, customer financial condition and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions also could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand these relationships. there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers on acceptable terms, or at all, or collect amounts owed to us from insolvent customers. our customer agreements are generally terminable upon written notice by either us or the customer, which provides our customers with the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us on less favorable terms or to award more business to our competitors. the loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 9 unfavorable changes to the mix of locally managed customers versus multi-unit customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. increasing the volume of our sales to locally managed customers is very important for our business and our results of operations. gross margin from our multi-unit customers is generally lower than that of our locally managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally managed customers. if sales to our locally managed customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our multi-unit customers, our operating margins may decline. moreover, if sales to our multi-unit customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally managed customers, we will become more dependent on multi-unit customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. additionally, the loss of sales to the larger of these multi-unit customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. in that event, if we were unable to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. changes in consumer eating habits (such as a decline in consuming food away from home, a decline in portion sizes, or a shift in preferences toward restaurants that are not our customers) could reduce demand for our products. consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. there is a growing consumer preference for sustainable, organic and locally grown products, and a shift towards plant-based proteins and/or animal proteins derived from animals that were humanely treated and anti-biotic free. changing consumer eating habits also occur due to generational shifts. millennials, the largest demographic group in terms of spend, seek new and different, as well as more ethnic, menu options and menu innovation. if consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs and/or supply shortages associated with our efforts to accommodate those changes as our suppliers adapt to the new eating preferences. changing consumer eating habits may reduce the frequency with which consumers purchase meals outside of the home. additionally, changes in consumer eating habits may result in the enactment or amendment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food products. compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as others regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, may be costly and time-consuming. we cannot make any assurances regarding our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or resulting new laws or regulations or to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. we may not be able to achieve our three-year financial targets by the end of fiscal year 2020. in fiscal 2018, we set new three-year financial targets to grow operating income, accelerate earnings per share growth faster than operating income growth and improve return on invested capital. our ability to meet these financial targets depends largely on our successful execution of our business plan including various related initiatives. there are various risks related to these efforts, including the risk that these efforts may not provide the expected benefits in our anticipated time frame, if at all, and may prove costlier than expected; and the risk of adverse effects to our business, results of operations and liquidity if past and future undertakings, and the associated changes to our business, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. our intentions and expectations with regard to the execution of our business plan, and the timing of any related initiatives, are subject to change at any time based on management's subjective evaluation of our overall business needs. if we are unable to successfully execute our business plan, whether due to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from our various business initiatives in the anticipated time frame or otherwise, we may be unable to achieve our three-year financial targets. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful . an element of our strategy includes further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected 10 by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations, of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse effect on the financial results of our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. changes in applicable tax laws or regulations and the resolution of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the u.s. and many countries in the eu where we do business are actively considering or have recently enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. in particular, the u.s. government enacted in december 2017 comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act). the tax act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code, the estimated impacts of which are disclosed elsewhere in this report. the final effects of the tax act may differ materially from our estimates, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the tax act, any further legislative actions to address questions that arise because of the tax act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the tax act, and/or any updates to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the effects. in addition, as discussed more fully at note 18 , income taxes, our accounting for certain elements of the tax act is provisional, and we have recorded reasonable estimates of the effects of those elements in our financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. completion of our accounting for such elements could result in charges or other adjustments that would impact our financial results for fiscal 2019. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination could change if tax laws or tax rulings were to be modified. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. given the breadth and complexity of the tax act, as well as the unpredictability of possible further changes to the u.s. or foreign tax laws and regulations and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to predict the cumulative effect of such tax laws and regulations on our results of operations and cash flow, but such laws and regulations (and changes thereto) could adversely impact our financial results. if the products distributed by us are alleged to have caused injury or illness, or to have failed to comply with governmental regulations, we may need to recall our products and may experience product liability claims. we, like any other foodservice distributor, may be subject to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, if the products we distribute are alleged to have caused injury or illness, to have been mislabeled, misbranded, or adulterated or to otherwise have violated applicable governmental regulations. we may also choose to voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we determine do not satisfy our quality standards, whether for taste, appearance or otherwise, in order to protect our brand and reputation. any future product recall or withdrawal that results in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, damage to our reputation and/or lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we also face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco are alleged to have caused injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is 11 unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business . we are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial, regional and local governments in the countries in which we operate with respect to many aspects of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, ethical business practices, transportation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. for a detailed discussion of the laws and regulations to which our business is subject, please refer to business - government regulation in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, or seizures or debarments from contracting with such government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties or third-party claims for non-compliance. our operations are subject to various federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the various countries in which we operate relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing: the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, and water; the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes; employee exposure to hazards in the workplace; and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of petroleum products and other regulated materials. in the course of our operations, we operate, maintain and fuel fleet vehicles; store fuel in on-site above and underground storage tanks; operate refrigeration systems; and use and dispose of hazardous substances and food wastes. we could incur substantial costs, including fines or penalties and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of any violations of environmental or workplace safety laws and regulations or releases of regulated materials into the environment. in addition, we could incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to environmental conditions at our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. for example, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products, which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks (including the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination associated with the use of underground storage tanks). certain of these laws and regulations in the eu may impose liability for costs of investigation or remediation of contamination (which could be material), regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal, and even if such contamination was present prior to the commencement of our operations at the site and was not caused by our activities. in addition, many of our facilities 12 have propane and battery powered forklifts. proposed or recently enacted legal requirements, such as those requiring the phase-out of certain ozone-depleting substances, and proposals for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to upgrade or replace equipment, or may increase our transportation or other operating costs. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively . historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely affected. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco's. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. in addition, our failure to implement effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures with respect to a significant acquired business could result in material weaknesses and/or a failure to file our periodic reports with the securities and exchange commission on a timely basis. we need access to borrowed funds to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity . a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . as described in note 11 , debt and other financing arrangements, as of june 30, 2018 , we had approximately $8.3 billion of total indebtedness. this amount included senior notes and issuances under a commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.0 billion . we also have a revolving credit facility supporting our u.s. commercial paper program in the amount of $2.0 billion scheduled to expire on november 2, 2021 , and various other smaller bank facilities. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, joint ventures and/or share repurchase programs. our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of future debt financing and financial results, and our credit ratings may be adversely affected as a result of the incurrence of additional indebtedness. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. 13 we rely on technology in our business and any cybersecurity incident, other technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers . we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, and our ability to serve customers most effectively depends on the reliability of our technology systems. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, to manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online platforms to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and customers. further, our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees and financial and strategic information about the company and our business partners. these technology systems and our uses thereof are vulnerable to disruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, espionage, cyber-attacks, viruses, theft and inadvertent release of information. any such disruption to these software and other technology systems, or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, the failure of these systems to otherwise perform as anticipated, or the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability, including litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies, and competitive disadvantage, any or all of which would potentially adversely affect our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits. moreover, a cybersecurity breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems associated with the breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to protect personal information against cyber-attacks and other wrongful attempts to access such information, which could result in a disruption of our operations. further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. while sysco has invested, and continues to invest, in technology security initiatives and other measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, as well as disaster recovery plans, these initiatives and measures may not be entirely effective to insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on our results of operations. additionally, information technology systems continue to evolve and, in order to remain competitive, we must implement new technologies in a timely and efficient manner. if our competitors implement new technologies more quickly or successfully than we do, such competitors may be able to provide lower cost or enhanced services of superior quality compared to those we provide, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we do business. for example, the eu adopted a new regulation that became effective in may 2018, the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. our failure to successfully implement or comply with appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of gdpr and other laws and regulations in this area could result in substantial fines or penalties and legal liability and could tarnish our reputation. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans . we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 13% of our current u.s. employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2018 , our total contributions to these plans were approximately $46.4 million . the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. we could also be treated as partially withdrawing from 14 participation in one of these plans if the number of our employees participating in a given plan is reduced to a certain percentage over a certain period of time. such reductions in the number of employees participating in these plans could occur as a result of changes in our business operations, such as facility closures or consolidations. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $131 million as of june 30, 2018 . a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines . at the end of fiscal 2012 , we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (u.s. retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s. based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013 , these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $4.0 billion as of june 30, 2018 ; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. see note 13 , company-sponsored employee benefit plans to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the u.s. retirement plan. the amount of our annual contribution to the u.s. retirement plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the u.s. retirement plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. in fiscal 2018, the company made voluntary contributions of $380 million to the u.s. retirement plan allowing the company to set an investment strategy that more closely aligns the duration of the u.s. retirement plan's assets with the duration of its liabilities. as a result, our u.s. retirement plan holds a greater amount of investments in fixed income securities, but also holds equity securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the u.s. retirement plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse effect on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience significant future declines, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages . as of june 30, 2018 , we had approximately 67,000 employees, approximately 24% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the international brotherhood of teamsters and unions in france and sweden. contract negotiations are handled by each individual operating company. approximately 19% of our union employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements have or will have expired contracts during fiscal 2019 , which contracts are subject to renegotiation. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively affect our business and materially reduce earnings . the future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability, and the ability of third-parties on which we rely to supply and to deliver our products, to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. employee recruitment, development and retention efforts undertaken by us and/or such third-parties may not be successful, resulting in a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. any such shortage could decrease sysco's ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees (or higher costs to purchase the services of such third parties) and a corresponding reduction in our results of operations. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco's board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result 15 in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, which could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our market risks consist of interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, fuel price risk and investment risk. interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at june 30, 2018 , there were no commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of june 30, 2018 was $8.3 billion , of which approximately 74% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. at july 1, 2017 , there were $119.7 million commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of july 1, 2017 was $8.2 billion , of which approximately 71% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. 36 details of our outstanding swap agreements as of june 30, 2018 are below: maturity date of swap notional value fixed coupon rate on hedged debt floating interest rate on swap floating rate reset terms location of fair value on balance sheet fair value of asset (liability) (in thousands) april 1, 2019 $ 500,000,000 1.90 % three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities $ (6,820 ) october 1, 2020 750,000,000 2.60 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities (23,654 ) july 15, 2021 500,000,000 2.50 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities (23,147 ) march 15, 2025 500,000,000 3.55 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities (2,933 ) we receive or pay amounts on these interest rate swap agreements on a semi-annual basis. the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 30, 2018 . all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 30, 2018 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 250,000 $ $ $ 450,000 $ $ 4,794,462 $ 5,494,462 $ 5,471,453 average interest rate 5.4 % % % 2.6 % % 4.2 % 4.1 % floating rate debt (1) $ 500,000 $ $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ $ 500,000 $ 2,250,000 $ 2,250,000 average interest rate 1.9 % % 2.6 % 2.5 % % 3.6 % 2.6 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 584,150 $ $ 584,150 $ 587,045 average interest rate % % % % 1.3 % % 1.3 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of june 30, 2018 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 500,000 $ $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ $ 500,000 $ 2,250,000 $ (56,554 ) average variable rate paid: rate a plus 0.8 % % 1.12 % 1.13 % % 0.75 % 0.97 % % fixed rate received 1.9 % % 2.6 % 2.5 % % 3.55 % 2.63 % % rate a three-month libor foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary's functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders' equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our largest currency exposures are with canadian dollars, british pound sterling and euro currencies. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries 37 into u.s. dollars. the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars positively impacted sales by 1.0% in fiscal 2018 when compared to fiscal 2017 . the exchange rate used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.1% in fiscal 2017 when compared to fiscal 2016 . the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2018 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2018 sales by 1.9% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. our investments and loans to our foreign operations created additional foreign currency exposure. in fiscal 2017, we designated 500 million of euro notes issued in june 2016 and various cross currency swaps as hedges of a portion of our net investment in euro-denominated and sterling-denominated foreign operations to reduce foreign currency risk associated with the investment in these operations. changes in the value of these items resulting from fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates to u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). in fiscal 2018 and in fiscal 2017, we entered into various cross currency swaps to mitigate the risk of exchange rate changes for intercompany loans that are not in the functional currency of our subsidiaries. these have been designated as cash flow hedges with changes recorded within foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.5% of sales during fiscal 2018 , fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016. our activities to mitigate fuel costs include routing optimization with the goal of reducing miles driven, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges that primarily track with the change in market prices of fuel. we use diesel fuel swap contracts to fix the price of a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 30, 2018 , we had diesel fuel swaps with a total notional amount of approximately 46 million gallons through june 2019 . these swaps will lock in the price of approximately 55% to 60% of our projected fuel purchase needs for fiscal 2019 . our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price or hedged at a later date. using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of approximately $10.0 million in our fuel costs on our non-contracted volumes. investment risk our u.s. retirement plan and u.k. retirement plan hold various investments, including public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan's funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plans at the plan's fiscal year end ( december 31, 2017 ) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2019 ; however, such an unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2019 by $30.6 million and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of june 30, 2018 by $366.6 million . an unfavorable change in the fair value of our u.k. plan assets would not materially increase our fiscal 2019 pension expense and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet, as of june 30, 2018 , by $25.9 million . 38risk factors 7 risk factors - business and operational risks - we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties, or third-party claims for non-compliance. general we have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance, including the sysco and brakes trademarks, in addition to our privately branded product trademarks that include these trademarks. these trademarks and the private brands on which they are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry. both our u.s. and european trademarks are effective for a ten-year period, and we generally renew our trademarks before their expiration dates unless a particular trademark is no longer in use. we believe the loss of the sysco trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we do not have any material patents or licenses. we are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products. our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, our business is not deemed to be seasonal. as of june 29, 2019 , we operated 325 distribution facilities throughout north america and europe. 6 item 1a. risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks our industry is characterized by low margins, and periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability. the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of significant product cost inflation may adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers in a timely manner. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may adversely affect our business due to the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. conversely, our business may be adversely affected by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in north america and europe, as well as unfavorable conditions in particular local markets, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the foodservice industry is characterized by relatively low profit margins with modest demand growth expected in the near-term, and, consequently, our results of operations are susceptible to regional, national and international economic trends and uncertainties. economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products. heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the collection of funds from such customers. liquidity issues and the inability of our suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to obtain the foodservice products and supplies that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we request. historically, north america and europe have experienced, from time to time, deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in their financial markets, which have adversely impacted business and consumer confidence and spending and depressed capital investment and economic activity in the affected regions. if similar unfavorable economic conditions were to arise in the future, or recent volatility in the financial markets and the global economy were to continue, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations in international markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations subject us to certain risks, including economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations in international markets in which we operate. for example, the u.k.'s anticipated exit from the eu (commonly referred to as brexit ) and the resulting significant change to the u.k.'s relationship with the eu and with countries outside the eu (and the laws, regulations and trade deals impacting business conducted between them) could disrupt the overall economic growth or stability of the u.k. and the eu and otherwise negatively impact our european operations. 7 the u.k. is currently negotiating the terms of brexit, with the u.k. currently due to exit the eu on or before october 31, 2019. in november 2018, the u.k. and the eu agreed upon a draft withdrawal agreement that set out the terms governing the u.k.'s departure, including, among other things, a transition period to allow for a future trade deal to be agreed upon. after the u.k. parliament rejected the draft withdrawal agreement multiple times during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the eu agreed to an extension of the exit date to october 31, 2019. as a result, there is significant uncertainty about the terms and timing under which the u.k. will leave the eu. it is possible that brexit will result in our u.k. and eu operations becoming subject to materially different, and potentially conflicting, laws, regulations or tariffs which could require costly new compliance initiatives or changes to legal entity structures or operating practices. furthermore, if the u.k. were to leave the eu without an agreement (a hard brexit ), there may be additional adverse impacts on immigration and trade between the u.k. and the eu or countries outside the eu. such impacts may directly increase our costs or could decrease demand for our goods and services by adversely impacting the business of restaurants or other customers in the foodservice distribution industry. the completion of brexit could also adversely affect the value of our euro- and pound-denominated assets and obligations. exchange rates related to the british pound sterling have been more volatile since the u.k. announced it would exit the eu and such volatility may continue in the future. future fluctuations in the exchange rate between the british pound sterling and the local currencies of our suppliers may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold in the u.k., which increases we may not be able to pass on to our customers. uncertainty surrounding brexit has contributed to recent fluctuations in the u.k. economy, which contracted in the second quarter of 2019 and could experience future disruptions. in addition, brexit could cause financial and capital markets within and outside the u.k. or the eu to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact the foodservice distribution industry. any one of these impacts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, the yellow vest protests in france against a fuel tax increase and the french government have negatively impacted our sales in france and may continue to do so. similarly, future labor disruptions or disputes could disrupt the integration of brake france and davigel into sysco france and our operations in france and the eu generally. in addition, if changes occur in laws and regulations impacting the flow of goods, services and workers in either the u.k or france or in other parts of the eu, with respect to brexit or otherwise, our european operations could also be negatively impacted. competition and the impact of gpos may reduce our margins and make it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . the foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional and multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. local and regional companies often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups, with the goal of enhancing their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies and ability to meet customer distribution requirements. these suppliers may also rely on local presence as a source of competitive advantage, and they may have lower costs and other competitive advantages due to geographic proximity. furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), online direct food wholesalers and cash and carry operations have served to further increase pressure on the industry's profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. moreover, some of our customers purchase their products from us through group purchasing organizations, or gpos, in an effort to lower the prices paid by these customers on their foodservice orders. gpos have a relatively larger presence in the healthcare, lodging and foodservice management customer segments. if these gpos are able to add a significant number of our customers as members, it may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers' ability to absorb cost increases. new and increasing competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting or other concessions. such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are able to effectively differentiate ourselves, we may only be able to do so through increased expenditures or decreased prices, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. 8 we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and fuel hedging arrangements intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs . volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. we require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past through, among other things, our fuel surcharge program, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. if fuel costs increase in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we routinely enter into fuel hedging arrangements, including fuel derivatives, to hedge our exposure to volatile fuel prices. nevertheless, our fuel hedging transactions may not be effective in protecting us from changes in fuel prices, and if fuel prices were to decrease significantly, these hedging arrangements would result in our paying higher-than-market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. in addition, our future use of fuel derivatives would expose us to the risk that any of our counterparties fails to perform its obligations, whether due to its insolvency or otherwise, which could result in financial losses. business and operational risks conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs . we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not be able to provide the foodservice products and supplies that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we request. we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include shortages of qualified labor for our suppliers, work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, animal disease outbreaks, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands, terrorist attacks or international hostilities and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, food-borne illnesses). further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or adversely affect demand for our products. at any time, input costs could increase for a prolonged period for a large portion of the products that we sell. additionally, we procure products from suppliers outside of the u.s., and we are subject to the risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, any or all of which could delay our receipt of products or increase our input costs. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. in addition, as a foodservice distributor, it is necessary for us to maintain an inventory of products. declines in product pricing levels between the time we purchase a product from our suppliers and the time we sell the product to our customers could reduce our margin on that inventory, adversely affecting our results of operations. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings . maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business. sysco's brand names, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including negative publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to illegal or unethical activities by our employees, suppliers or agents, could tarnish our reputation and diminish the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our results of operations. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) or injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or reduce public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers were to become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations, which would have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the 9 use of sysco products) or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and materially adversely affect our results of operations. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity, including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our relationships with long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated. we have long-standing relationships with a number of our customers, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time. market competition, customer requirements, customer financial condition and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions also could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand these relationships. we may not be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers on acceptable terms, or at all, or collect amounts that insolvent customers might owe us. our customer agreements are generally terminable upon written notice by either us or the customer, which provides our customers with the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us on less favorable terms or to award more business to our competitors. the loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. unfavorable changes to the mix of locally managed customers versus multi-unit customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. increasing the volume of our sales to locally managed customers is very important for our business and our results of operations. gross margin from our multi-unit customers is generally lower than that of our locally managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally managed customers. if sales to our locally managed customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our multi-unit customers, our operating margins may decline. moreover, if sales to our multi-unit customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally managed customers, we will become more dependent on multi-unit customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. additionally, the loss of sales to the larger of these multi-unit customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. in that event, if we were unable to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. changes in consumer eating habits (such as a decline in consuming food away from home, a decline in portion sizes, or a shift in preferences toward restaurants that are not our customers) could reduce demand for our products. consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. there is a growing consumer preference for sustainable, organic and locally grown products, and a shift towards plant-based proteins and/or animal proteins derived from animals that were humanely treated and antibiotic free. changing consumer eating habits also occur due to generational shifts. millennials, the largest demographic group in terms of spend, seek new and different, as well as more ethnic, menu options and menu innovation. if consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs and/or supply shortages associated with our efforts to accommodate those changes as our suppliers adapt to the new eating preferences. changing consumer eating habits may reduce the frequency with which consumers purchase meals outside of the home. additionally, changes in consumer eating habits may result in the enactment or amendment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose 10 the nutritional content of our food products. compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as others regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, may be costly and time-consuming. we may not be able to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or resulting new laws or regulations or to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. we may not be able to achieve our three-year financial targets by the end of fiscal year 2020. in fiscal 2018, we set new three-year financial targets to grow operating income, accelerate earnings per share growth faster than operating income growth and improve return on invested capital. our ability to meet these financial targets depends largely on our successful execution of our business plan including various related initiatives. there are various risks related to these efforts, including the risk that these efforts may not provide the expected benefits in our anticipated time frame, if at all, and may prove costlier than expected; and the risk of adverse effects to our business, results of operations and liquidity if past and future undertakings, and the associated changes to our business, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. our intentions and expectations with regard to the execution of our business plan, and the timing of any related initiatives, are subject to change at any time based on management's subjective evaluation of our overall business needs. in early fiscal 2020, we lowered our fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2020 adjusted operating income growth target to approximately $600 million. see the discussion in item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - strategy and fiscal 2020 three-year financial targets. if we are unable to successfully execute our business plan, whether due to our failure to realize the anticipated benefits from our various business initiatives in the anticipated time frame or otherwise, we may be unable to achieve our three-year financial targets. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful . an element of our strategy includes further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations, of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse effect on the financial results of our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. changes in applicable tax laws or regulations and the resolution of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income-based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the u.s. and many countries in the eu where we do business are actively considering or have recently enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination could change if tax laws or tax rulings were to be modified. we are also subject to non-income-based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. although we believe that our income and non-income-based tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. given the unpredictability of possible further changes to the u.s. or foreign tax laws and regulations and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to predict the cumulative effect of such tax laws and regulations on our results of operations and cash flow, but such laws and regulations (and changes thereto) could adversely impact our financial results. 11 if the products distributed by us are alleged to have caused injury or illness, or to have failed to comply with governmental regulations, we may need to recall our products and may experience product liability claims. we, like any other foodservice distributor, may be subject to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, if the products we distribute are alleged to have caused injury or illness, to have been mislabeled, misbranded, or adulterated or to otherwise have violated applicable governmental regulations. we may also choose to voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we determine do not satisfy our quality standards, whether for taste, appearance or otherwise, in order to protect our brand and reputation. any future product recall or withdrawal that results in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, damage to our reputation and/or lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we also face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco is alleged to have caused injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. umbrella liability insurance that we maintain for product liability claims may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business . we are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial, regional and local governments in the countries in which we operate with respect to many aspects of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, ethical business practices, transportation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. for a detailed discussion of the laws and regulations to which our business is subject, please refer to business - government regulation in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we may not be in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times; moreover, we may not be able to comply with all future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, or seizures or debarments from contracting with such government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties or third-party claims for non-compliance. our operations are subject to various federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the various countries in which we operate relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing: the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, and water; the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes; employee exposure to hazards in the workplace; and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of petroleum products and other regulated materials. 12 in the course of our operations, we operate, maintain and fuel fleet vehicles; store fuel in on-site above and underground storage tanks; operate refrigeration systems; and use and dispose of hazardous substances and food wastes. we could incur substantial costs, including fines or penalties and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of any violations of environmental or workplace safety laws and regulations or releases of regulated materials into the environment. in addition, we could incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to environmental conditions at our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. for example, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products, which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks (including the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination associated with the use of underground storage tanks). certain of these laws and regulations in the eu may impose liability for costs of investigation or remediation of contamination (which could be material), regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal, and even if such contamination was present prior to the commencement of our operations at the site and was not caused by our activities. in addition, many of our facilities have propane and battery-powered forklifts. proposed or recently enacted legal requirements, such as those requiring the phase-out of certain ozone-depleting substances, and proposals for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to upgrade or replace equipment, or may increase our transportation or other operating costs. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively . historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely affected. for example, we encountered operational challenges in fiscal 2019 in connection with our efforts to integrate two businesses in france acquired in connection with the brakes group acquisition, which integration efforts have adversely affected our ability to drive growth in sales. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco's. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. in addition, our failure to implement effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures with respect to a significant acquired business could result in material weaknesses and/or a failure to file our periodic reports with the securities and exchange commission on a timely basis. we need access to borrowed funds to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity . a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . as described in note 13 , debt and other financing arrangements, in the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, as of june 29, 2019 , we had approximately $8.2 billion of total indebtedness. this amount included senior notes and issuances under a commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.0 billion . we also have a revolving credit facility supporting our u.s. commercial paper program in the amount of $2.0 billion scheduled to expire on june 28, 2024 , and various other smaller bank facilities. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. 13 our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, joint ventures and/or share repurchase programs. our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of future debt financing and financial results, and our credit ratings may be adversely affected as a result of the incurrence of additional indebtedness. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. changes in the method of determining london interbank offered rate (libor), or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest expense related to outstanding debt. amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility may bear interest rates in relation to libor, depending on our selection of repayment options. in addition, certain of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements have a floating interest rate in relation to three-month libor. on july 27, 2017, the financial conduct authority in the u.k. announced that it would phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of 2021. it is unclear whether new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. the u.s. federal reserve is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with a newly created index called the broad treasury financing rate, calculated with a broad set of short-term repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate the credit facility and any interest rate swap agreements expiring after 2021 and may not be able to do so with terms that are favorable to us. the overall financing market may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of libor. disruption in the financial market or the inability to renegotiate the credit facility or our interest rate swap agreements with favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we rely on technology in our business, and any cybersecurity incident, other technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers . we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, and our ability to serve customers most effectively depends on the reliability of our technology systems. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, to manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online platforms to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and customers. further, our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees and financial and strategic information about the company and our business partners. these technology systems and our uses thereof are vulnerable to disruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, espionage, cyber-attacks, viruses, theft and inadvertent release of information. any such disruption to these software and other technology systems, or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, the failure of these systems to otherwise perform as anticipated, or the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability, including litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies, and competitive disadvantage, any or all of which would potentially adversely affect our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits. moreover, a significant cybersecurity breach could require us to devote significant additional management resources to address the problems associated with the breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to protect personal information against cyber-attacks and other wrongful attempts to access such information, which could result in a disruption of our operations. further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. while sysco has invested, and continues to invest, in technology security initiatives and other measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, as well as disaster recovery plans, these initiatives and measures may not be entirely effective to insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on our results of operations. additionally, information technology systems continue to evolve and, in order to remain competitive, we must implement new technologies in a timely and efficient manner. if our competitors implement new technologies more quickly or successfully than we do, such competitors may 14 be able to provide lower cost or enhanced services of superior quality compared to those we provide, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we do business. for example, the eu adopted a new regulation that became effective in may 2018, the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. we are working to comply with gdpr and other laws and regulations in this area that apply to us, and we anticipate needing to devote significant additional resources to complying with these laws and regulations. our failure to successfully implement or comply with appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of gdpr and other laws and regulations in this area could result in substantial fines or penalties and legal liability and could tarnish our reputation. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans . we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 12% of our current u.s. employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2019 , our total contributions to these plans were approximately $48.5 million . the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. we could also be treated as partially withdrawing from participation in one of these plans if the number of our employees participating in a given plan is reduced to a certain percentage over a certain period of time. such reductions in the number of employees participating in these plans could occur as a result of changes in our business operations, such as facility closures or consolidations. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $128 million as of june 29, 2019 . a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines . at the end of fiscal 2012 , we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (u.s. retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013 , these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $4.5 billion as of june 29, 2019 ; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. see note 15 , company-sponsored employee benefit plans to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the u.s. retirement plan. the amount of our annual contribution to the u.s. retirement plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the u.s. retirement plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. in fiscal 2018, we made voluntary contributions of $380 million to the u.s. retirement plan, allowing us to set an investment strategy that more closely aligns the duration of the u.s. retirement plan's assets with the duration of its liabilities. as a result, our u.s. retirement plan holds a greater amount of investments in fixed income securities, but also holds equity securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the u.s. retirement plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse effect on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience significant future declines, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages . as of june 29, 2019 , we had approximately 69,000 employees, approximately 22% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the international brotherhood of teamsters and unions in france and sweden. contract negotiations are handled by each 15 individual operating company. approximately 32% of our union employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements have or will have expired contracts during fiscal 2020 , which contracts are subject to renegotiation. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively affect our business and materially reduce earnings . the future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability, and the ability of third parties on which we rely to supply and to deliver our products, to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly adversely affect our business. employee recruitment, development and retention efforts undertaken by us and/or such third-parties may not be successful, resulting in a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. any such shortage could decrease our ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees (or higher costs to purchase the services of such third parties) and a corresponding reduction in our results of operations. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco's board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, which could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our market risks consist of interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, fuel price risk and investment risk. interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at june 29, 2019 , there was $132.1 million in commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of june 29, 2019 was $7.8 billion , of which approximately 70% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. at june 30, 2018 , there were no commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of june 30, 2018 was $8.3 billion , of which approximately 74% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. details of our outstanding swap agreements as of june 29, 2019 are below: maturity date of swap notional value fixed coupon rate on hedged debt floating interest rate on swap floating rate reset terms location of fair value on balance sheet fair value of asset (liability) (in thousands) october 1, 2020 $ 750,000,000 2.60 % three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities $ (4,673 ) july 15, 2021 $ 500,000,000 2.50 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term liabilities (4,612 ) june 23, 2023 500,000,000 1.25 three-month euribor every three months in advance other long-term assets 11,428 march 15, 2025 $ 500,000,000 3.55 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term assets 25,968 we receive or pay amounts on these interest rate swap agreements on a semi-annual basis. 44 the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 29, 2019 . all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 29, 2019 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 132,081 $ $ 450,000 $ $ $ 4,794,500 $ 5,376,581 $ 5,362,742 average interest rate 2.56 % % 2.60 % % % 4.13 % 3.96 % floating rate debt (1) $ $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ $ $ 500,000 $ 1,750,000 $ 1,760,338 average interest rate % 2.60 % 2.50 % % % 3.55 % 2.84 % euro denominated: floating rate debt (1) $ $ $ $ 568,500 $ $ $ 568,500 $ 576,771 average interest rate % % % 1.25 % % % 1.25 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 382,585 $ 382,585 $ 379,658 average interest rate % % % % % 3.65 % 3.65 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of june 29, 2019 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ 568,500 $ $ 500,000 $ 2,318,500 $ 28,112 average variable rate paid: rate a plus % 1.12 % 1.13 % 1.10 % % 0.75 % 1.04 % % fixed rate received % 2.60 % 2.50 % 1.25 % % 3.55 % 2.45 % % rate a three-month libor foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary's functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders' equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our largest currency exposures are with canadian dollars, british pound sterling and euro currencies. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively affected sales by 0.8% in fiscal 2019 when compared to fiscal 2018 . the exchange rate used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars positively affected sales by 1.0% in fiscal 2018 when compared to fiscal 2017 . the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2019 or fiscal 2018 . a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2019 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively affected fiscal 2019 sales by 1.7% and would not have materially affected our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. our investments and loans to our foreign operations created additional foreign currency exposure. in fiscal 2017, we designated 500 million of euro notes issued in june 2016 and various cross currency swaps as hedges of a portion of our net investment in euro-denominated and sterling-denominated foreign operations to reduce foreign currency risk associated with the investment in these operations. changes in the value of these items resulting from fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates to u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). in fiscal 2018, we entered into various cross currency swaps to mitigate the risk of exchange rate changes for 45 intercompany loans that are not in the functional currency of our subsidiaries. these have been designated as cash flow hedges with changes recorded within foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.5% of sales during fiscal 2019 , fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 . our activities to mitigate fuel costs include routing optimization with the goal of reducing miles driven, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges that primarily track with the change in market prices of fuel. we use diesel fuel swap contracts to fix the price of a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 29, 2019 , we had diesel fuel swaps with a total notional amount of approximately 51 million gallons through june 2020 . these swaps are expected to lock in the price of approximately 60% of our projected fuel purchase needs for fiscal 2020 . our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price or hedged at a later date. using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of approximately $9.5 million in our fuel costs on our non-contracted volumes. investment risk our u.s. retirement plan holds various investments, including public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan's funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plans at the plans' fiscal year end ( december 31, 2018 ) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2020 ; however, such an unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2020 by $33.2 million and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of june 29, 2019 by $398.4 million . 46risk factors 7 risk factors - business and operational risks - we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties, or third-party claims for non-compliance. general we have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance, including the sysco and brakes trademarks, in addition to our privately branded product trademarks that include these trademarks. these trademarks and the private brands on which they are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry. both our u.s. and european trademarks are effective for a ten-year period, and we generally renew our trademarks before their expiration dates unless a particular trademark is no longer in use. we believe the loss of the sysco trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we do not have any material patents or licenses. we are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products. our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, our business is not deemed to be seasonal. as of june 27, 2020, we operated 326 distribution facilities throughout north america and europe. item 1a. risk factors the following discussion of risk factors identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. this information should be read in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. the following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. these factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and from historical trends. industry and general economic risks global health developments and economic uncertainty resulting from the covid-19 pandemic have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. public health crises, pandemics and epidemics, such as the recent outbreak of covid-19, have impacted our operations directly and are expected to continue to impact us directly, or may continue to disrupt the operations of our business partners, suppliers and customers in ways that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. fear of such events may further alter consumer confidence, behavior and spending patterns, and could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries (or globally), resulting in an economic downturn that could affect customers' demand for our products. in response to the recent outbreak of covid-19 and its development into a pandemic, governmental authorities in many countries in which we operate, and in which our customers are present and suppliers operate, have imposed mandatory closures, sought voluntary closures and imposed restrictions on, or advisories with respect to, travel, business operations and public gatherings or interactions. among other matters, these actions have required or strongly urged various venues where foodservice products are served, including restaurants, schools, hotels and cruise liners, to reduce or discontinue operations, 7 which have adversely affected and will continue to adversely affect demand in the foodservice industry, including demand for our products and services. in addition, some consumers are choosing to stay home due to the perceived risk of infection and health risk associated with covid-19, which is adversely affecting demand in the foodservice industry, including demand for our products and services. these events have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on numerous aspects of our business, financial condition and results of operations including, but not limited to, our growth, product costs, supply chain disruptions and the potential for inventory spoilage, labor shortages, logistics constraints, customer demand for our products and industry demand generally, difficulties in collecting our accounts receivables and corresponding increases in our bad debt exposure, consumer spending, our liquidity, the price of our securities and trading markets with respect thereto, our ability to access capital markets, and the global economy and financial markets generally. a prolonged or deeper economic downturn that adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations could affect our ability to access the credit markets for additional liquidity. a significant downgrade in our credit ratings or adverse conditions in the capital markets may increase the cost of borrowing for us or limit our access to capital. as a result, we may be unable to continue to comply with the debt covenants that are specific to our revolving credit facility, which could result in an event of default. we may see an increase in bankruptcies of customers, which could contribute to an increase in bad debt expense recorded in fiscal 2021. we experienced an increase in past due receivables and recognized additional bad debt charges of $323.4 million specific to the covid-19 pandemic during fiscal 2020. total bad debt expense for fiscal 2020 was $404.2 million. additionally, these events caused us to incur $70.3 million in severance expenses during the second half of fiscal 2020 related to actions to reduce our workforce through the implementation of hiring freezes, furloughs and other headcount reductions, as well as goodwill impairment charges of $203.2 million. we have implemented employee safety measures, based on guidance from the centers for disease control and prevention and world health organization, across all our supply chain facilities, including proper hygiene, social distancing, mask use, and temperature screenings. these measures may not be sufficient to prevent the spread of covid-19 among our employees. illness, travel restrictions, absenteeism, or other workforce disruptions could negatively affect our supply chain, distribution, or other business processes. we may face additional production disruptions in the future, which may place constraints on our ability to distribute products in a timely manner or may increase our costs. the ultimate extent of the impact of covid-19 on our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend largely on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak within the u.s. and europe and the related impact on consumer confidence and spending, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. even after the covid-19 pandemic subsides, we could experience a longer-term impact on our business, such as costs associated with enhanced health, safety and hygiene requirements in one or more regions in attempts to counteract future outbreaks or the possibility that venues where foodservice products are served are slow to reopen and/or experience reduced customer traffic after reopening. the impact of the covid-19 pandemic may change our mix of earnings by jurisdiction and has increased the risk that operating losses may occur within certain of our jurisdictions that could lead to the recognition of valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets in the future, if these losses are prolonged beyond our current expectations. this would negatively impact our income tax expense, net earnings, and balance sheet. sustained adverse impacts to our company, certain suppliers, and customers may also affect our future valuation of certain assets, and therefore, may increase the likelihood of an impairment charge, write-off, or reserve associated with such assets, including goodwill, long-lived intangible assets, property and equipment, inventories, accounts receivable, tax assets and other assets. to the extent the covid-19 pandemic continues to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this annual report on form 10-k, such as those relating to our level of indebtedness, and may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. our industry is characterized by low margins, and periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability. the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of significant product cost inflation may adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers in a timely manner. in addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may adversely affect our business due to the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive 8 environment. conversely, our business may be adversely affected by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. as a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. unfavorable macroeconomic conditions in north america and europe, as well as unfavorable conditions in particular local markets, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the foodservice industry is characterized by relatively low profit margins, consequently, our results of operations are susceptible to regional, national and international economic trends and uncertainties. economic conditions can affect us in the following ways: unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market. food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products. heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. liquidity issues and the inability of our customers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the collection of funds from such customers. liquidity issues and the inability of our suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support their operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to obtain the foodservice products and supplies that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we request. historically, north america and europe have experienced, from time to time, including during the covid-19 pandemic, deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in their financial markets, which have adversely impacted business and consumer confidence and spending and depressed capital investment and economic activity in the affected regions. if similar unfavorable economic conditions were to arise in the future, or recent volatility in the financial markets and the global economy were to continue, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations in international markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations subject us to certain risks, including economic and political instability and potential unfavorable changes in laws and regulations in international markets in which we operate. for example, the u.k.'s exit from the eu, which occurred on january 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as brexit ), and the resulting significant change to the u.k.'s relationship with the eu and with countries outside the eu (and the laws, regulations and trade deals impacting business conducted between them) could disrupt the overall economic growth or stability of the u.k. and the eu and otherwise negatively impact our european operations. the withdrawal agreement between the u.k. and the eu that establishes the terms governing the u.k.'s departure provides that, among other things, there is an ongoing transition period under which the u.k. remains a part of the eu customs and regulatory area until december 31, 2020. during this time, the u.k. and the eu are negotiating their future trading relationship, which under current u.k. government policy is anticipated to take the form of a free trade agreement. as a result, significant uncertainty remains as to the terms under which the u.k. will continue to trade with the eu after the end of the transition period. it is possible that brexit will result in our u.k. and eu operations becoming subject to materially different, and potentially conflicting, laws, regulations or tariffs, which could require costly new compliance initiatives or changes to legal entity structures or operating practices. furthermore, if the transition period were to expire without an agreement (a no-deal brexit ), there may be additional adverse impacts on immigration and trade between the u.k. and the eu or countries outside the eu. such impacts may directly increase our costs or could decrease demand for our goods and services by adversely impacting the business of restaurants or other customers in the foodservice distribution industry. the completion of brexit could also adversely affect the value of our euro- and pound-denominated assets and obligations. exchange rates related to the british pound sterling have been more volatile since the u.k. announced it would exit the eu and such volatility may continue in the future. future fluctuations in the exchange rate between the british pound sterling and the local currencies of our suppliers may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold in the u.k., which increases we may not be able to pass on to our customers. uncertainty surrounding brexit has contributed to recent fluctuations in the u.k. economy and could experience future disruptions. in addition, brexit could cause financial and capital markets 9 within and outside the u.k. or the eu to constrict, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our business, and could cause a substantial dip in consumer confidence and spending that could negatively impact the foodservice distribution industry. any one of these impacts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as an example of political instability, in fiscal 2020, the yellow vest protests in france against a fuel tax increase, pension reform and the french government negatively impacted our sales in france. similarly, future labor disruptions or disputes could disrupt the integration of brake france and davigel into sysco france and our operations in france and the eu generally. in addition, if changes occur in laws and regulations impacting the flow of goods, services and workers in either the u.k or france or in other parts of the eu, with respect to brexit or otherwise, our european operations could also be negatively impacted. competition and the impact of gpos may reduce our margins and make it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability . the foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional and multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. local and regional companies often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups, with the goal of enhancing their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies and ability to meet customer distribution requirements. these suppliers may also rely on local presence as a source of competitive advantage, and they may have lower costs and other competitive advantages due to geographic proximity. furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), online direct food wholesalers and cash and carry operations have served to further increase pressure on the industry's profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. moreover, some of our customers purchase their products from us through group purchasing organizations, or gpos, in an effort to lower the prices paid by these customers on their foodservice orders. gpos have a relatively larger presence in the healthcare, lodging and foodservice management customer segments. if these gpos are able to add a significant number of our customers as members, it may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers' ability to absorb cost increases. new and increasing competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases or may require increased discounting or other concessions. such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are able to effectively differentiate ourselves, we may only be able to do so through increased expenditures or decreased prices, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and fuel hedging arrangements intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs . volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. we require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past through, among other things, our fuel surcharge program, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. if fuel costs increase in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we routinely enter into fuel hedging arrangements, including fuel derivatives, to hedge our exposure to volatile fuel prices. nevertheless, our fuel hedging transactions may not be effective in protecting us from changes in fuel prices, and if fuel prices were to decrease significantly, these hedging arrangements would result in our paying higher-than-market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. in addition, our future use of fuel derivatives would expose us to the risk that any of our counterparties fails to perform its obligations, whether due to its insolvency or otherwise, which could result in financial losses. business and operational risks 10 conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies, increase our product costs and impair our ability to deliver products and services to our customers . we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not be able to provide the foodservice products and supplies that we need in the quantities and at the prices that we request. we are also subject to delays caused by interruptions in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include shortages of qualified labor for our suppliers, work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands, civil insurrection or social unrest (such as the recent protests and social movements across several north american cities), terrorist attacks or international hostilities and natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics (such as the covid-19 pandemic) or other human or animal disease outbreaks or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, foodborne illnesses). many of these conditions outside of our control could also impair our ability to provide our products and services to our customers or increase the cost of doing so. further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or adversely affect demand for our products. at any time, input costs could increase for a prolonged period for a large portion of the products that we sell. additionally, we procure products from suppliers outside of the u.s., and we are subject to the risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, including health and safety restrictions related to epidemics and pandemics such as the covid-19 pandemic, any or all of which could delay our receipt of products or increase our input costs. our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products and/or to timely provide our products and services and fulfill our other obligations to our customers, whether as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as our customers may turn to other distributors. in addition, as a foodservice distributor, it is necessary for us to maintain an inventory of products. declines in product pricing levels between the time we purchase a product from our suppliers and the time we sell the product to our customers could reduce our margin on that inventory, adversely affecting our results of operations. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings . maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business. sysco's brand names, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. anything that damages our reputation or public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including negative publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to illegal or unethical activities by our employees, suppliers or agents, could tarnish our reputation and diminish the value of our brand, which could adversely affect our results of operations. reports, whether true or not, of foodborne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) or injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or reduce public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers were to become ill from foodborne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations, which would have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. in addition, instances of foodborne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of sysco products) or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and materially adversely affect our results of operations. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity, including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of internet-based communications. adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers' confidence in us and reduce short-term or long-term demand for 11 our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our relationships with long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated. we have long-standing relationships with a number of our customers, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time. market competition, customer requirements, customer financial condition and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions also could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand these relationships. we may not be able to retain or renew existing agreements, maintain relationships with any of our customers on acceptable terms, or at all, or collect amounts that insolvent customers might owe us. our customer agreements are generally terminable upon written notice by either us or the customer, which provides our customers with the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us on less favorable terms or to award more business to our competitors. the loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our anticipated change to the mix of locally managed customers versus multi-unit customers could reduce our gross and operating margins. gross margin from our multi-unit customers is generally lower than that of our locally managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally managed customers. if sales to our locally managed customers do not grow at the same (or a greater) rate as sales to our multi-unit customers, our operating margins will likely decline. meanwhile, the covid-19 pandemic generally has negatively affected multi-unit customers less than locally managed customers. this creates an opportunity for sysco to grow sales to multi-unit customers, which represents a strategy that sysco is actively pursuing to grow both sales and gross profit dollars in fiscal 2021. moreover, as our sales to multi-unit customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally managed customers, we will become more dependent on multi-unit customers, as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales, and therefore, a future loss of sales to the larger of these multi-unit customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, they could pressure us to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. in that event, if we were unable to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment. changes in consumer eating habits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. changes in consumer eating habits (such as a decline in consuming food away from home, a decline in portion sizes, or a shift in preferences toward restaurants that are not our customers) could reduce demand for our products. consumer eating habits could be affected by a number of factors, including changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming certain foods. there is a growing consumer preference for sustainable, organic and locally grown products, and a shift towards plant-based proteins and/or animal proteins derived from animals that were humanely treated and antibiotic free. changing consumer eating habits also occur due to generational shifts. millennials, the largest demographic group in terms of spend, seek new and different, as well as more ethnic, menu options and menu innovation. if consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or discontinue sales of certain items in our product portfolio, and we may experience higher costs and/or supply shortages associated with our efforts to accommodate those changes as our suppliers adapt to the new eating preferences. changing consumer eating habits may reduce the frequency with which consumers purchase meals outside of the home. additionally, changes in consumer eating habits may result in the enactment or amendment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food products. compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as others regarding the ingredients and nutritional content of our food products, may be costly and time-consuming. we may not be able to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or resulting new laws or regulations or to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. in addition, in response to the covid-19 pandemic and the related economic downturn, many consumers have preferred to eat at home rather than consume food away from home. if these preferences continue and consumers continue to 12 avoid gathering in public places in large groups, the demand for our products and services could be adversely affected. moreover, once all governmental restrictions are lifted, it is unclear how quickly customers will return to their prior eating habits, which may be a function of continued concerns over safety or depressed consumer sentiment due to adverse economic conditions, including job losses. expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful . an element of our strategy includes further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, such as the covid-19 pandemic, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations, of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse effect on the financial results of our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. changes in applicable tax laws or regulations and the resolution of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income-based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the u.s. and many countries in the eu where we do business are actively considering or have recently enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination could change if tax laws or tax rulings were to be modified. we are also subject to non-income-based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. although we believe that our income and non-income-based tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. given the unpredictability of possible further changes to the u.s. or foreign tax laws and regulations and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to predict the cumulative effect of such tax laws and regulations on our results of operations and cash flow, but such laws and regulations (and changes thereto) could adversely impact our financial results. if the products distributed by us are alleged to have caused injury or illness, or to have failed to comply with governmental regulations, we may need to recall our products and may experience product liability claims. we, like any other foodservice distributor, may be subject to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, if the products we distribute are alleged to have caused injury or illness, to have been mislabeled, misbranded, or adulterated or to otherwise have violated applicable governmental regulations. we may also choose to voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we determine do not satisfy our quality standards, whether for taste, appearance or otherwise, in order to protect our brand and reputation. any future product recall or withdrawal that results in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, damage to our reputation and/or lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we also face the risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of products sold by sysco is alleged to have caused injury or illness. we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future 13 or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. umbrella liability insurance that we maintain for product liability claims may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business . we are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial, regional and local governments in the countries in which we operate with respect to many aspects of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, ethical business practices, transportation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. for a detailed discussion of the laws and regulations to which our business is subject, please refer to business government regulation in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we may not be in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times; moreover, we may not be able to comply with all future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, or seizures or debarments from contracting with such government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and we may be subject to substantial fines, penalties or third-party claims for non-compliance. our operations are subject to various federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the various countries in which we operate relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing: the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, and water; the management and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes; employee exposure to hazards in the workplace; and the investigation and remediation of contamination resulting from releases of petroleum products and other regulated materials. in the course of our operations, we operate, maintain and fuel fleet vehicles; store fuel in on-site above and underground storage tanks; operate refrigeration systems; and use and dispose of hazardous substances and food wastes. we could incur substantial costs, including fines or penalties and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of any violations of environmental or workplace safety laws and regulations or releases of regulated materials into the environment. in addition, we could incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to environmental conditions at our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. for example, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products, which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks (including the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination associated with the use of underground storage tanks). certain of these laws and regulations in the eu may impose liability for costs of investigation or remediation of contamination (which could be material), regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal, and even if such contamination was present 14 prior to the commencement of our operations at the site and was not caused by our activities. in addition, many of our facilities have propane and battery-powered forklifts. proposed or recently enacted legal requirements, such as those requiring the phase-out of certain ozone-depleting substances, and proposals for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to upgrade or replace equipment, or may increase our transportation or other operating costs. if we are unable to finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively, our earnings per share could be materially adversely affected . historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely affected. for example, we encountered operational challenges in fiscal 2019 in connection with our efforts to integrate two businesses in france acquired in connection with the brakes group acquisition, which integration efforts have adversely affected our ability to drive growth in sales. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco's. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. in addition, our failure to implement effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures with respect to a significant acquired business could result in material weaknesses and/or a failure to file our periodic reports with the securities and exchange commission on a timely basis. we need access to borrowed funds to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity . a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position . as described in note 13, debt and other financing arrangements, in the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, as of june 27, 2020, we had approximately $14.4 billion of total indebtedness. this amount included senior notes and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which supports our u.s. commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.0 billion scheduled to expire on june 28, 2024, and issuances under a new unrelated commercial paper program in the u.k. allowing the company to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed 600 million. we also have available a 364-day credit facility, in the amount of $750.0 million, scheduled to expire on may 19, 2021, and various other smaller bank facilities. certain covenants under our credit facilities place restrictions on some of the actions we may take with respect to our common stock. in may 2020 we entered into an amendment to our revolving credit agreement that, among other things, added a new covenant that restricts (1) increases to sysco's regular quarterly dividend and (2) repurchases of equity interests of sysco, in each case, until the earlier of september 2022 or the date on which sysco has achieved a certain ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) to consolidated interest expense. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, joint ventures and/or share repurchase programs. our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of 15 future debt financing and financial results, and our credit ratings may be adversely affected as a result of the incurrence of additional indebtedness. in the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. changes in the method of determining london interbank offered rate (libor), or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest expense related to outstanding debt. amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility may bear interest rates in relation to libor, depending on our selection of repayment options. in addition, certain of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements have a floating interest rate in relation to three-month libor. on july 27, 2017, the financial conduct authority in the u.k. announced that it would phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of 2021. it is unclear whether new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. the u.s. federal reserve is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with a newly created index called the broad treasury financing rate, calculated with a broad set of short-term repurchase agreements backed by treasury securities. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate the credit facility and any interest rate swap agreements expiring after 2021 and may not be able to do so with terms that are favorable to us. the overall financing market may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of libor. disruption in the financial market or the inability to renegotiate the credit facility or our interest rate swap agreements with favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we rely on technology in our business, and any cybersecurity incident, other technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could negatively affect our business and our relationships with customers . we use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, and our ability to serve customers most effectively depends on the reliability of our technology systems. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, to manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online platforms to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and customers. further, our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees and financial and strategic information about the company and our business partners. these technology systems and our uses thereof are vulnerable to disruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, espionage, cyber-attacks, viruses, theft and inadvertent release of information. in particular, we have experienced and continue to experience cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities in our systems and those of our third party providers, including viruses and attacks targeting our information technology systems and networks. the ongoing covid-19 pandemic is introducing additional cybersecurity risk as a result of our employees, contractors and other corporate partners working remotely. due to the increased remote workforce, we must increasingly rely on information technology systems that are outside our direct control. these systems are potentially vulnerable to cyber-based attacks and security breaches. in addition, cyber criminals are increasing their attacks on individual employees, utilizing interest in pandemic-related information to increase business email compromise scams designed to trick victims into transferring sensitive data or funds, or steal credentials that compromise information systems. to date, these cybersecurity threats have not had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. however, the potential consequences of a future material cybersecurity attack include business disruption; disruption to systems; theft, destruction, loss, corruption, misappropriation or unauthorized release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property (including personal information in violation of one or more privacy laws); reputational and brand damage; and potential liability, including litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition by governmental authorities of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which, in turn, could cause us to incur significantly increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs and the loss of customers. the actions and controls we have implemented and are implementing to date, or which we seek to cause or have caused third party service providers to implement, may be insufficient to protect our systems, information or other intellectual property. further, we anticipate devoting significant additional resources to upgrade our security measures generally, including those we employ to protect personal information against these cybersecurity threats. 16 due to the evolving nature of these cybersecurity threats, the potential impact of any future incident cannot be predicted with certainty, but such an incident could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, especially if the amount of insurance coverage we maintain is not sufficient to cover claims or liabilities relating to the incident. further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. failure to adequately assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives would increase our vulnerability to such risks. sysco's efforts to prevent security breaches and cybersecurity incidents, and to implement effective disaster recovery plans, may not be entirely effective to insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on our results of operations. additionally, information technology systems continue to evolve and, in order to remain competitive, we must implement new technologies in a timely and efficient manner. if our competitors implement new technologies more quickly or successfully than we do, such competitors may be able to provide lower cost or enhanced services of superior quality compared to those we provide, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we do business. for example, the eu adopted the gdpr, a new regulation that became effective in may 2018, which requires companies to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data. we are working to comply with gdpr and other laws and regulations in this area that apply to us, such as california's consumer privacy act that became effective january 1, 2020, and we anticipate needing to devote significant additional resources to complying with these laws and regulations. our failure to successfully implement or comply with appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of gdpr and other laws and regulations in this area could result in substantial fines or penalties and legal liability and could tarnish our reputation. we may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans . we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 11% of our current u.s. employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. in fiscal 2020, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $47.4 million. the costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. the amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. the unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. we could also be treated as partially withdrawing from participation in one of these plans if the number of our employees participating in a given plan is reduced to a certain percentage over a certain period of time. such reductions in the number of employees participating in these plans could occur as a result of changes in our business operations, such as facility closures or consolidations. based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $160.8 million as of june 27, 2020. a significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines . at the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (u.s. retirement plan) as of december 31, 2012 for all u.s.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. effective january 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. while these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $5.0 billion as of june 27, 2020; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. see note 15, company-sponsored employee benefit plans in the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the u.s. retirement plan. 17 the amount of our annual contribution to the u.s. retirement plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the u.s. retirement plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. in fiscal 2018, we made voluntary contributions of $380 million to the u.s. retirement plan, allowing us to set an investment strategy that more closely aligns the duration of the u.s. retirement plan's assets with the duration of its liabilities. as a result, our u.s. retirement plan holds a greater amount of investments in fixed income securities, but also holds equity securities. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. the projected liability of the u.s. retirement plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. specifically, decreases in these interest rates have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our funding obligations. to the extent financial markets experience significant future declines, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages . as of june 27, 2020, we had approximately 57,000 employees, approximately 24% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the international brotherhood of teamsters and unions in france and sweden. contract negotiations are handled by each individual operating company. approximately 24% of our union employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that have expired (or will expire during fiscal 2021) and are subject to renegotiation. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively affect our business and materially reduce earnings . the future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability, and the ability of third parties on which we rely to supply and to deliver our products, to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly adversely affect our business. employee recruitment, development and retention efforts undertaken by us and/or such third-parties may not be successful, resulting in a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. any such shortage could decrease our ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees (or higher costs to purchase the services of such third parties) and a corresponding reduction in our results of operations. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders . under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco's board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, which could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our market risks consist of interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, fuel price risk and investment risk. interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at june 27, 2020, there were no commercial paper issuances outstanding under our u.s. commercial paper program and we had 600.0 million outstanding under our u.k. commercial paper program. total debt as of june 27, 2020 was $14.4 billion, of which approximately 79% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. at june 29, 2019, there was $132.1 million in commercial paper issuances outstanding. total debt as of june 29, 2019 was $7.8 billion, of which approximately 70% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. 56 details of our outstanding swap agreements as of june 27, 2020 are below: maturity date of swap notional value fixed coupon rate on hedged debt floating interest rate on swap floating rate reset terms location of fair value on balance sheet fair value of asset (liability) (in thousands) october 1, 2020 $ 750,000,000 2.60 % three-month libor every three months in advance other current assets $ 1,388 july 15, 2021 $ 500,000,000 2.50 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term assets $ 4,962 june 23, 2023 500,000,000 1.25 three-month euribor every three months in advance other long-term assets $ 9,294 march 15, 2025 $ 500,000,000 3.55 three-month libor every three months in advance other long-term assets $ 55,526 we receive or pay amounts on these interest rate swap agreements on a semi-annual basis. the following tables present our interest rate position as of june 27, 2020. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 27, 2020 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) u.s. dollar denominated: fixed rate debt $ $ 450,000 $ $ $ 750,000 $ 9,044,500 $ 10,244,500 $ 10,153,608 average interest rate % 2.60 % % % 5.65 % 4.83 % 4.80 % floating rate debt (1) $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ $ 700,000 $ 500,000 $ $ 2,450,000 $ 2,502,371 average interest rate 2.60 % 2.50 % % 2.13 % 3.55 % % 2.64 % pound sterling denominated: fixed rate debt $ 740,284 $ $ $ $ $ $ 740,284 $ 740,226 average interest rate 0.45 % % % % % % 0.45 % euro denominated: floating rate debt (1) $ $ $ 561,098 $ $ $ $ 561,098 $ 568,011 average interest rate % % 1.25 % % % % 1.25 % canadian dollar denominated: fixed rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 364,538 $ $ 364,538 $ 362,785 average interest rate % % % % 3.65 % % 3.65 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. interest rate position as of june 27, 2020 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 thereafter total fair value (dollars in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ 750,000 $ 500,000 $ 561,098 $ $ 500,000 $ $ 2,311,098 $ 71,170 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 1.12 % 1.13 % 1.10 % % 0.75 % % 1.04 % % fixed rate received 2.60 % 2.50 % 1.25 % % 3.55 % % 2.46 % % rate a three-month libor 57 foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary's functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders' equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our largest currency exposures are with canadian dollars, british pound sterling and euro currencies. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively affected sales by 0.3% in fiscal 2020 when compared to fiscal 2019. the exchange rate used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively affected sales by 0.8% in fiscal 2019 when compared to fiscal 2018. the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2020 or fiscal 2019. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2020 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively affected fiscal 2020 sales by 1.4% and would not have materially affected our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. our investments and loans to our foreign operations created additional foreign currency exposure. in fiscal 2017, we designated 500 million of euro notes issued in june 2016 as a hedge of a portion of our net investment in euro-denominated foreign operations to reduce foreign currency risk associated with the investment in these operations. changes in the value of these items resulting from fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates to u.s. dollar exchange rates are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). we have also entered into various cross currency swaps to mitigate the risk of exchange rate changes for intercompany loans that are not in the functional currency of our subsidiaries. these have been designated as cash flow hedges with changes recorded within foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.5% of sales during fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. our activities to mitigate fuel costs include routing optimization with the goal of reducing miles driven, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges that primarily track with the change in market prices of fuel. we use diesel fuel swap contracts to fix the price of a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 27, 2020, we had diesel fuel swaps with a total notional amount of approximately 54 million gallons through december 2021. these swaps are expected to lock in the price of approximately 60% of our projected fuel purchase needs for fiscal 2021. our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price or hedged at a later date. using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of approximately $3.4 million in our fuel costs on our non-contracted volumes. investment risk our u.s. retirement plan holds various investments, including public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan's assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan's liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan's funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plans at the plans' fiscal year end (december 31, 2019) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2021; however, such an unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2021 by $36.3 million and would reduce our shareholders' equity on our balance sheet as of june 27, 2020 by $440.9 million. 58risk factors 5 risk factors deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets are affecting consumer confidence, which is currently adversely impacting our business and we expect these conditions to continue the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. the deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets continue to negatively affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending. this has led to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. these conditions have, in turn, negatively impacted our sales, as noted by our declining sequential sales trend each quarter from a positive 8.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to a negative 6.6% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, and have also negatively impacted our operating results for fiscal 2009. if these conditions do not improve, there will continue to be a negative impact on our operating results. increases in fuel costs and inflation affect our costs and we may not be able to compensate for increases in such costs volatile fuel prices and food costs have affected our industry during fiscal 2009. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. in addition, prolonged periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on such product cost increases. our estimate for the inflation in sysco cost of goods was 4.7% in fiscal 2009, compared to 6.0% in fiscal 2008 and 3.4% in fiscal 2007. if fuel costs and product costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact because a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion, our continued growth depends, in large part, on our ability to continue this expansion. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. product liability claims could materially impact our business we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. 5 table of contents adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. anything that damages that reputation or the public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, such as flu epidemics or other pandemics, even those unrelated to the use of sysco products, or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages as of june 27, 2009, approximately 8,400 employees at 54 operating companies were members of 57 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2010, 15 agreements covering approximately 1,900 employees have expired or will expire. since june 27, 2009, three contracts covering 440 of the 1,900 employees have been renegotiated. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. our funding obligations with respect to our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience further declines our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. as a result of the decline in the financial markets in fiscal 2009, the value of the investments held by the retirement plan declined through june 27, 2009 as compared to june 28, 2008. these fluctuations in asset values have caused anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase, have caused pension expense for fiscal 2010 to increase and have resulted in a reduction in our shareholders equity as of june 27, 2009, which is when this plan funded status was last measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent financial markets experience further declines, our future contributions, pension expense and funded status may be negatively affected for future years which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. we may be required to pay material amounts under multi-employer defined benefit pension plans we contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 12% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. in fiscal 2009, our total contributions to these plans, which include payments for voluntary withdrawals, were approximately $47,982,000. we do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. in addition, the pension protection act, enacted in august 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. as a result, we expect our required contributions to these plans to increase in the future. under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to 6 table of contents make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan unfunded vested liabilities. based on the information currently available from plan administrators, we estimate that our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans we participate in, some of which appear to be underfunded, could be as much as $80,000,000 as of june 27, 2009 based on a voluntary withdrawal. because the company is not provided with the information by plan administrators on a timely basis and the company expects that many multi-employer pension plans assets have declined due to recent financial market performance, we believe our share of the withdrawal liability could be greater. in addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the internal revenue service (irs} may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. as of june 27, 2009, we had approximately $17,000,000 in liabilities recorded in total related to certain multi-employer defined benefit plans for which our voluntary withdrawal has already occurred, all of which are expected to be paid during fiscal 2010. requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. product cost deflation may adversely impact future operations our business may be adversely impacted by periods of prolonged product cost deflation. we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. expanding into international markets presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts and international operations may not be successful in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes expansion of operations into new international markets. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations. our preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. technology dependence could have a material negative impact on our business our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. 7 table of contents our design of an enterprise-wide software integration project may not be implemented and in the event of implementation may negatively impact our business, results of operations and liquidity we commenced the design of an enterprise-wide project to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes. these systems are commonly referred to as enterprise resource planning (erp) systems. when we have completed the design phase of this project, which we anticipate to occur by the end of calendar 2009, a decision will be made as to whether to build the system as designed and if so, the timing of implementation. erp implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. erp implementations typically require transformation of business and financial processes in order to realize the benefits of the project. when the design phase is complete, if we reach a decision to discontinue the project, amounts invested will be written off which may negatively impact our results of operations at that time. if we reach a decision to continue with the project, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost overages during the erp implementation process. in addition, because the implementation is expected to involve a significant capital commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected if the erp system, and the associated process changes, do not result in the benefits that we anticipate. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2009 as of june 27, 2009, we had no commercial paper outstanding. our long-term debt obligations as of june 27, 2009 were $2,476,649,000, of which approximately 99% were at fixed rates of interest. we had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of june 27, 2009. the following table presents our interest rate position as of june 27, 2009. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 27, 2009 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 6,311 $ 5,073 $ 203,428 $ 251,583 $ 206,097 $ 1,765,629 $ 2,438,121 $ 2,509,602 average interest rate 4.3 % 4.5 % 6.1 % 4.3 % 4.1 % 5.8 % 5.5 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 13,600 $ 13,600 $ 13,600 average interest rate 1.3 % 1.2 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 659 $ 652 $ 738 $ 731 $ 790 $ 18,020 $ 21,590 $ 22,223 average interest rate 8.1 % 8.4 % 8.6 % 9.6 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.7 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 2,193 $ 921 $ 224 $ $ $ $ 3,338 $ 3,436 average interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % fiscal 2008 as of june 28, 2008, we had no commercial paper outstanding. our long-term debt obligations as of june 28, 2008 were $1,980,331,000, of which approximately 99% were at fixed rates of interest. we had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of june 28, 2008. the following table presents our interest rate position as of june 28, 2008. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 28, 2008 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 4,437 $ 3,366 $ 2,318 $ 201,205 $ 251,055 $ 1,478,309 $ 1,940,690 $ 1,889,602 average interest rate 3.7 % 3.8 % 4.2 % 6.1 % 4.3 % 5.5 % 5.4 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 15,000 $ 15,000 $ 15,000 average interest rate 2.2 % 2.2 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 459 $ 506 $ 637 $ 744 $ 818 $ 21,477 $ 24,641 $ 23,992 average interest rate 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements 34 table of contents of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1.2% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 and increased sales 1.0% in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2009 year-end exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2009 sales by an additional 0.8% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. our canadian financing subsidiary has the u.s. dollar as its functional currency and has notes denominated in u.s. dollars. we have the potential to create taxable income in canada when this debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2009 year-end exchange rate and the resulting increase in the tax liability associated with these notes would not have a material impact on our results of operations. fuel price risk the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.8%, 0.7% and 0.6% of sales, respectively. fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by sysco increased by approximately $33,154,000 in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008 and $34,023,000 in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007. from time to time, we will enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 27, 2009, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $64,000,000 through march 2010. in july 2009, we entered additional forward purchase commitments totaling approximately $16,000,000 at a fixed price through june 2010. together, these contracts will lock in the price of approximately 40% of our fuel purchase needs for fiscal 2010. our commitments through august 2009 were entered into at prevailing rates from mid-july through mid-august 2008. as a result, these contracts are at fixed prices greater than both the prices incurred during same periods in the previous fiscal year and current market prices. the remainder of our outstanding contracts were entered into at the prevailing rates in march, april and july 2009 and thus the fixed price on these contracts reflects the lower current market price for diesel. fuel costs in fiscal 2010, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to decrease by approximately $50,000,000 to $80,000,000 as compared to fiscal 2009. our estimate is based upon the prevailing market prices for diesel in mid-august 2009, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2010 and estimates of fuel consumption. actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price used in our estimates above would change the range of potential decrease to $40,000,000 to $70,000,000. investment risk sysco invests in corporate-owned life insurance policies in order to fund certain retirement programs which are subject to market risk. the value of our investments in corporate-owned life insurance policies is largely based on the values of underlying investments, which include publicly traded securities. therefore, the value of these policies will be adjusted each period based on the performance of the underlying securities which could result in volatility in our earnings. due to the declines in the financial markets in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, we have experienced significant losses in adjusting the carrying value of these policies to their cash surrender values in these periods. should the financial markets decline, we would take charges to adjust the carrying value of our corporate-owned life insurance, and if the market declines are significant, these charges could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on our operating expenses, net income and earnings per share. a 10% unfavorable change in publicly traded securities held within our investments in corporate-owned life insurance would not have a material impact on our operating expenses, net income and earnings per share. our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. as a result of the declines in the financial markets in fiscal 2009, the value of the investments held by the retirement plan declined as of june 27, 2009 as compared to june 28, 2008. these fluctuations in asset values have caused the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase, have caused pension expense for fiscal 2010 to increase and have resulted in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of june 27, 2009, which is when this plan funded status was last measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have a material impact on our results of operations. to the extent the financial markets experience further 35 table of contents declines, our anticipated future contributions, pension expense and funded status will be affected for future years as well. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan fiscal year end (december 31, 2008) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2010; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2010 by $23,700,000 and would reduce our shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of june 27, 2009 by $76,630,000. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors periods of difficult economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets affect consumer confidence, which can adversely impact our business the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. from late in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending. this led to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. these conditions, in turn, negatively impacted our sales, as noted by our declining sequential sales trend each quarter from a positive 8.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to a negative 8.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the development of similar economic conditions in the future or permanent changes in consumer dining habits as a result of such conditions would likely negatively impact our operating results. although economic conditions appear to have improved since the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the perceived improvement may not continue or may not result in consumers returning to their prior dining habits. periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and profitability volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. prolonged periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. in addition, product cost inflation may negatively impact consumer spending decisions, which could adversely impact our sales. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of prolonged product cost deflation because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. our estimate for the deflation in sysco cost of goods was 1.5% in fiscal 2010, compared to inflation of 4.7% in fiscal 2009 and 6.0% in fiscal 2008. 5 table of contents our enterprise-wide software integration project could experience implementation problems, scheduling delays or cost overages and may not prove to be cost effective or result in the benefits we anticipate, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and liquidity in fiscal 2009, we commenced the design of an enterprise-wide project to implement an integrated software system, commonly referred to as an enterprise resource planning (erp) system, to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations. we are currently testing the erp system and processes that have been designed and built and believe that implementation will occur across the majority of our broadline and sygma operating companies beginning in fiscal 2011 and ending in fiscal 2013. erp implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. as is the case in most erp implementations, we expect that the implementation of our erp system will require transformation of business and financial processes in order to realize the full benefits of the project. although we expect the investment in the business transformation project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs will exceed the benefits during the early stages of implementation, including fiscal 2011. the expected costs of the project in fiscal 2011 may be greater or less than currently expected because as we begin implementation of the project, we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including the incurrence of expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the erp implementation process. in addition, because the implementation is expected to involve a significant capital commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the erp system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. if fuel costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. from time to time, we enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price for diesel. if fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in us paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, product recalls, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. anything that damages that reputation or the public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, such as flu epidemics or other pandemics, even those unrelated to the use of sysco products, or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically. 6 table of contents product liability claims could materially impact our business we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. expanding into international markets and complimentary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complimentary lines of business may not be successful in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complimentary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complimentary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complimentary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. technology dependence could have a material negative impact on our business our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. furthermore, process changes may be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the erp system. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. 7 table of contents we may be required to pay material amounts under multi-employer defined benefit pension plans we contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 11% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. in fiscal 2010, our total contributions to these plans, which include payments for voluntary withdrawals, were approximately $51.5 million. we do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. in addition, the pension protection act, enacted in august 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. as a result, we expect our required contributions to these plans to increase in the future. under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan unfunded vested liabilities. based on the information currently available from plan administrators, which has valuation dates ranging from january 31, 2008 to june 30, 2009, sysco estimates its share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans in which it participates could have been as much as $183.0 million as of july 3, 2010 based on a voluntary withdrawal. the majority of the plans we participate in have a valuation date of calendar year-end. as such, the majority of our estimated withdrawal liability results from plans for which the valuation date was december 31, 2008; therefore, our estimated liability reflects the asset losses incurred by the financial markets as of that date. in general, the financial markets improved during calendar year 2009; therefore, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could differ from this estimate. in addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the internal revenue service (irs) may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. as of july 3, 2010, sysco had approximately $0.9 million in liabilities recorded in total related to certain multi-employer defined benefit plans for which our voluntary withdrawal has already occurred. requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. our funding of our company-sponsored pension plans may increase and our earnings may decrease should financial markets and the value of our company owned life insurance experience future declines our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. our expense is also impacted by these items. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet at fiscal year-end, which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our discount rate at fiscal year-end. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our contributions and pension expense may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. sysco invests in corporate-owned life insurance policies in order to fund certain retirement programs which are subject to market risk. the value of our investments in corporate-owned life insurance (coli) policies is largely based on the values of underlying investments, which include publicly traded securities. therefore, the value of these policies will be adjusted each period based on the performance of the underlying securities which has in the past resulted, and could in the future further result, in volatility in our earnings. as of july 3, 2010, our investments in coli policies were valued at $203.2 million. during periods of significant declines in the financial markets, we experienced significant losses in adjusting the carrying value of these policies to their cash surrender values. should the financial markets suffer significant declines again in the future, we would take additional charges to adjust the carrying value of our coli policies, which would increase our operating expenses, and adversely impact our net earnings and earnings per share. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages as of july 3, 2010, approximately 8,400 employees at 51 operating companies were members of 55 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2011, 12 agreements covering approximately 2,400 employees have expired or will expire. since july 3, 2010, two contracts covering 452 of the 2,400 employees have been renegotiated. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work 8 table of contents stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. our preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2010 as of july 3, 2010, we had no commercial paper outstanding. our long-term debt obligations as of july 3, 2010 were $2.5 billion, of which approximately 81% were at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. in september 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $200.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 to floating rate debt (2014 swap). in october 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $250.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 to floating rate debt (2013 swap). both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and increasing floating interest rate exposure. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. these transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. as of july 3, 2010, the 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. as of july 3, 2010, the 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the 36 table of contents consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. the following tables present our interest rate position as of july 3, 2010. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 3, 2010 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 6,250 $ 204,658 $ 2,471 $ 1,275 $ 552 $ 1,766,234 $ 1,981,440 $ 2,262,961 average interest rate 4.5 % 6.1 % 4.7 % 4.0 % 3.5 % 5.8 % 5.9 % floating rate debt (1) $ $ $ 252,801 $ 208,249 $ 1,100 $ 12,500 $ 474,650 $ 483,872 average interest rate 2.5 % 2.2 % 0.3 % 0.6 % 2.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 894 $ 957 $ 944 $ 979 $ 1,061 $ 18,676 $ 23,511 $ 26,851 average interest rate 7.6 % 8.0 % 8.8 % 9.1 % 9.2 % 9.8 % 9.5 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 826 $ 205 $ $ $ $ $ 1,031 $ 1,177 average interest rate 8.9 % 8.9 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 8.9 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements. interest rate position as of july 3, 2010 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ $ $ 250,000 $ 200,000 $ $ $ 450,000 $ 11,045 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 0.0 % 0.0 % 2.1 % 2.1 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % fixed rate received 0.0 % 0.0 % 4.2 % 4.6 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % rate a three-month libor fiscal 2009 as of june 27, 2009, we had no commercial paper outstanding. our long-term debt obligations as of june 27, 2009 were $2.5 billion, of which approximately 99% were at fixed rates of interest. we had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of june 27, 2009. the following table presents our interest rate position as of june 27, 2009. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 27, 2009 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 6,311 $ 5,073 $ 203,428 $ 251,583 $ 206,097 $ 1,765,629 $ 2,438,121 $ 2,509,602 average interest rate 4.3 % 4.5 % 6.1 % 4.3 % 4.1 % 5.8 % 5.5 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 13,600 $ 13,600 $ 13,600 average interest rate 1.3 % 1.2 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 659 $ 652 $ 738 $ 731 $ 790 $ 18,020 $ 21,590 $ 22,223 average interest rate 8.1 % 8.4 % 8.6 % 9.6 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.7 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 2,193 $ 921 $ 224 $ $ $ $ 3,338 $ 3,436 average interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 37 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.9% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 and negatively impacted sales by 1.2% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2010 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2010 sales by 0.2% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. our canadian financing subsidiary has the u.s. dollar as its functional currency and has notes denominated in u.s. dollars. we have the potential to create taxable income in canada when this debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2010 year-end exchange rate and the resulting increase in the tax liability associated with these notes would not have a material impact on our results of operations. fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.6%, 0.8% and 0.7% of sales, respectively. fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by sysco decreased by approximately $71.8 million in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 and increased by $33.2 million in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008. from time to time, we will enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of july 3, 2010, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $93.0 million through september 2011. these contracts will lock in the price of approximately 30% to 35% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices slightly lower than the current market price for diesel. fuel costs in fiscal 2011, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $10 million to $20 million as compared to fiscal 2010. our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2011 and estimates of fuel consumption. actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price used in our estimates above would change the range of potential increase to $25 million to $35 million. investment risk sysco invests in corporate-owned life insurance policies in order to fund certain retirement programs which are subject to market risk. the value of our investments in corporate-owned life insurance policies is largely based on the values of underlying investments, which include publicly traded securities. therefore, the value of these policies will be adjusted each period based on the performance of the underlying securities which could result in volatility in our earnings. should the financial markets decline, we would take charges to adjust the carrying value of our corporate-owned life insurance, and if the market declines are significant, these charges could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on our operating expenses, net income and earnings per share. a 10% unfavorable change in publicly traded securities held within our investments in corporate-owned life insurance would not have a material impact on our operating expenses, net income and earnings per share. our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have a material impact on our results of operations. to the extent the 38 table of contents financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions, pension expense and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan fiscal year end (december 31, 2009) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2011; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2011 by $31.6 million and would reduce our shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of july 3, 2010 by $102.7 million. 39risk factors 5 risk factors periods of difficult economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets affect consumer confidence, which can adversely impact our business the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. difficult economic conditions, such as the slow economic recovery experienced in fiscal 2011 which included food and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer, and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending. this can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. these conditions, in turn, can negatively impacted our sales. the development of worsening economic conditions in the future or permanent changes in consumer dining habits as a result of such conditions would likely negatively impact our operating results. periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and profitability volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. in addition, product cost inflation may negatively impact consumer spending decisions, which could adversely impact our sales. conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. our estimate for the inflation in sysco cost of goods was 4.6% in fiscal 2011, compared to deflation of 1.5% in fiscal 2010 and inflation of 4.7% in fiscal 2009. our business transformation project could experience implementation problems, scheduling delays or cost overages and may not prove to be cost effective or result in the benefits we anticipate, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and liquidity in fiscal 2009, we commenced the design of an enterprise-wide project to implement an integrated software system, commonly referred to as an enterprise resource planning (erp) system, to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations. we have substantially completed the design and build phases of our business transformation project and we are testing the underlying erp system and processes through a pilot implementation. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, our pilot operating company implemented the project and our shared services center became active in its support role. erp implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. as is the case in most erp implementations, we expect that the implementation of our erp system will require transformation of business and financial processes in order to realize the full benefits of the project. although we expect the investment in the business transformation project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs will exceed the benefits during the testing and deployment stages of implementation, including fiscal 2012. the expected costs of the project in fiscal 2012 may be greater or less than currently expected because as we continue implementation of the project, we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including incurring expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. in fiscal 2011, we took more time to test the underlying erp system and processes. we are also taking additional time in fiscal 2012 to improve the underlying systems prior to larger scale deployment. these actions have caused a delay in the project of approximately six to twelve months and until we reach the point where the underlying system functions as intended, our deployment timeline is still being determined. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the erp implementation process. in addition, because the implementation is expected to involve a significant capital commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the erp system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate. we may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. the cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. if fuel costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price for diesel. if fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in us paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. we are 5 table of contents also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, product recalls, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. if we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business we are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, including regulations of the fda, usda, u.s. occupational safety and health administration, federal motor carrier safety, data privacy, environmental protection, the import and export of goods and customs regulations, the false claims act, the foreign corrupt practices act and the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. from time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. we also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. while we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. the cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. anything that damages that reputation or the public confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public confidence in our products. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, such as flu epidemics or other pandemics, even those unrelated to the use of sysco products, or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically. competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers the foodservice industry is highly competitive and numerous regional and local competitors exist. additionally, new competition could arise from non-traditional sources or consolidation among competitors. new competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. such competition may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers. increased competition within the industry and general economic conditions have served to further increase pressure on the industry profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted. product liability claims could materially impact our business we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. 6 table of contents expanding into international markets and complimentary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complimentary lines of business may not be successful in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations. another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complimentary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. our ability to successfully operate in these complimentary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. risks inherent in branching out into such complimentary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. we anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position as of july 2, 2011, we had approximately $2.7 billion of total indebtedness. we have a board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion; a revolving credit facility supporting our u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.0 billion set to expire on november 4, 2012; and certain uncommitted bank lines of credit providing for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million. our indebtedness may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. prior to maturity of our revolving credit facility, we plan to renew or extend this credit facility. the amount of credit capacity we are able to obtain, if not sufficient for our needs, and the ultimate cost of such credit could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results. in addition, to the extent that we decrease the amount of capacity under our revolver when it is renewed, there is a risk that such liquidity levels may not be adequate in the future to the extent that our access to capital markets is restricted. technology dependence could have a material negative impact on our business our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. furthermore, process changes may be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the erp system. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. we may be required to pay material amounts under multi-employer defined benefit pension plans we contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. in fiscal 2011, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $32.8 million. 7 table of contents we do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. in addition, the pension protection act, enacted in august 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. as a result, we expect our required contributions to these plans to increase in the future. under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan unfunded vested liabilities. based on the information currently available from plan administrators, which has valuation dates ranging from january 31, 2009 to december 31, 2009, sysco estimates its share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans in which it participates could have been as much as $200.0 million as of july 2, 2011 based on a voluntary withdrawal. this estimate excludes plans for which sysco has recorded withdrawal liabilities. the majority of the plans we participate in have a valuation date of calendar year-end. as such, the majority of our estimated withdrawal liability results from plans for which the valuation date was december 31, 2009; therefore, our estimated liability reflects the effects of the fair value of the plans assets and projected benefit obligations as of that date. due to the lack of current information, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate. in addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the internal revenue service (irs) may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. as of july 2, 2011, sysco had approximately $42.4 million in liabilities recorded in total related to certain multi-employer defined benefit plans for which our voluntary withdrawal has already occurred. if any of these plans were to undergo a mass withdrawal, as defined by the pension benefit guaranty corporation, within a two year time frame from the point of our withdrawal, we could have additional liability. requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. our funding of our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase and our earnings may decrease should financial markets experience future declines our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. our expense is also impacted by these items. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet at fiscal year-end, which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our discount rate at fiscal year-end. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our contributions and pension expense may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages as of july 2, 2011, approximately 7,800 employees at 52 operating companies were members of 55 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2012, 21 agreements covering approximately 2,000 employees have expired or will expire. since july 2, 2011, two contracts covering 85 of the approximately 2,000 employees have been renegotiated. failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. 8 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2011 as of july 2, 2011, we had no commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of july 2, 2011 was $2.7 billion, of which approximately 75% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. in fiscal 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $200 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 (the fiscal 2014 swap) and $250 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 (the fiscal 2013 swap) to floating rate debt. both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. these transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. as of july 2, 2011, the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $7.4 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. as of july 2, 2011, the fiscal 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $6.1 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. the following tables present our interest rate position as of july 2, 2011. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 2, 2011 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 205,616 $ 3,682 $ 1,910 $ 1,117 $ 632 $ 1,772,072 $ 1,985,029 $ 2,214,529 average interest rate 6.0 % 4.1 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.6 % 5.8 % 5.9 % floating rate debt (1) $ 181,975 $ 253,316 $ 208,779 $ 1,100 $ $ 12,500 $ 657,670 $ 676,075 average interest rate 2.0 % 2.4 % 1.9 % 0.2 % 0.5 % 2.0 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 1,178 $ 1,173 $ 1,219 $ 1,264 $ 1,264 $ 19,492 $ 25,590 $ 28,549 average interest rate 7.7 % 8.4 % 8.7 % 8.8 % 9.3 % 9.8 % 9.5 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 234 $ $ $ $ $ $ 234 $ 261 average interest rate 8.9 % 8.9 % (1) includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements. interest rate position as of july 2, 2011 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ $ 250,000 $ 200,000 $ $ $ $ 450,000 $ 13,482 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 2.1 % 2.1 % 2.1 % fixed rate received 4.2 % 4.6 % 4.4 % rate a three-month libor 34 table of contents fiscal 2010 as of july 3, 2010, we had no commercial paper outstanding. total debt as of july 3, 2010 was $2.5 billion, of which approximately 81% was at fixed rates of interest including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements. as of july 3, 2010, the 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. as of july 3, 2010, the 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. the fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month libor which resets quarterly. the following tables present our interest rate positions as of july 3, 2010. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 3, 2010 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 6,250 $ 204,658 $ 2,471 $ 1,275 $ 552 $ 1,766,234 $ 1,981,440 $ 2,262,961 average interest rate 4.5 % 6.1 % 4.7 % 4.0 % 3.5 % 5.8 % 5.9 % floating rate debt (1) $ $ $ 252,801 $ 208,249 $ 1,100 $ 12,500 $ 474,650 $ 483,872 average interest rate 2.5 % 2.2 % 0.3 % 0.6 % 2.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 894 $ 957 $ 944 $ 979 $ 1,061 $ 18,676 $ 23,511 $ 26,851 average interest rate 7.6 % 8.0 % 8.8 % 9.1 % 9.2 % 9.8 % 9.5 % euro denominated: fixed rate debt $ 826 $ 205 $ $ $ $ $ 1,031 $ 1,177 average interest rate 8.9 % 8.9 % 8.9 % interest rate position as of july 3, 2010 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ $ $ 250,000 $ 200,000 $ $ $ 450,000 $ 11,045 average variable rate paid: rate a plus 2.1 % 2.1 % 2.1 % fixed rate received 4.2 % 4.6 % 4.4 % foreign currency exchange rate risk the majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into u.s. dollars. our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars. the changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into u.s. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.5% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 and 0.9% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009. the impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2011 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2011 sales by 0.6% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks. our canadian financing subsidiary has the u.s. dollar as its functional currency and has notes denominated in u.s. dollars. we have the potential to create taxable income in canada when this debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2011 year-end exchange rate and the resulting increase in the tax liability associated with these notes would not have a material impact on our results of operations. fuel price risk due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased 35 table of contents fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.6%, 0.6% and 0.8% of sales, respectively. fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by sysco increased by approximately $33.0 million in fiscal 2011 from fiscal 2010 and decreased by $71.8 million in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009. we routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of july 2, 2011, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $86 million through june 2012. these contracts will lock in the price of approximately 30% to 35% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices lower than the current market price for diesel for the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2012 and near the current market price for diesel for the remainder of the fiscal year. fuel costs in fiscal 2012, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $35 million to $45 million as compared to fiscal 2011. our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2012 and estimates of fuel consumption. actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price used in our estimates above would change the range of potential increase to $55 million to $65 million. investment risk our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (retirement plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. the amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan liability. fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan funded status is measured. also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have a material impact on our results of operations. to the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions, pension expense and funded status will be affected for future years. a 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored retirement plan at the plan fiscal year end (december 31, 2010) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2012; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2012 by $39.8 million and would reduce our shareholders equity on our balance sheet as of july 2, 2011 by $129.7 million. 36 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk sysco does not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. sysco's use of debt directly exposes the company to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes the company to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes the company to changes in the market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that the company may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt. sysco manages its debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at june 29, 2002, the company had outstanding one interest rate swap agreement whereby sysco exchanged the fixed interest payments on the $200,000,000 principal amount of 4.75% notes for floating interest payments. at june 29, 2002 the company had outstanding $63,293,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through september 3, 2002. the company's long-term debt obligations of $1,190,061,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest except for $200,000,000 in fixed rate debt swapped to a floating rate of interest as discussed above. 19quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk sysco does not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. sysco's use of debt directly exposes the company to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes the company to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes the company to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that the company may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at a higher rate. sysco manages its debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at june 28, 2003, the company had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding. at june 28, 2003 the company had outstanding $151,748,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through october 2, 2003. the company's long-term debt obligations of $1,249,467,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. the following table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. fiscal year ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total value -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ---------- ---------- ---------- (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt...... $ 20,616 $157,328 $420,390 $103,380 $ 4,015 $478,236 $1,183,965 $1,319,714 average interest rate............. 5.3% 6.5% 4.0% 7.2% 7.9% 6.4% 5.6% floating rate debt... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $49,926 $ 15,000 $ 64,926 $ 64,926 average interest rate............. -- -- -- -- 1.2% 1.3% 1.3% canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt...... $ 331 $ 286 $ 377 $ 475 $ 512 $ 19,542 $ 21,523 $ 23,991 average interest rate............. 6.5% 6.0% 7.1% 7.5% 7.6% 9.5% 9.3% floating rate debt... $101,822 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 101,822 $ 101,822 average interest rate............. 3.4% -- -- -- -- -- 3.4% the company does not believe that its operations in canada exposes it to significant foreign exchange risk. 23quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk sysco does not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. sysco's use of debt directly exposes the company to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes the company to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes the company to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that the company may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at a higher rate. sysco manages its debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at july 3, 2004, the company had outstanding $73,834,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through october 7, 2004. the company's total long-term debt obligations of $1,394,326,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. in addition, the company has entered into interest rate swap agreements totaling $500,000,000 in notional amount whereby the company receives interest payments at fixed rates of interest and pays interest at variable rates. the following tables present the company's interest rate position as of july 3, 2004. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. 27 interest rate position as of july 3, 2004 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total value -------- -------- -------- -------- ------ ---------- ---------- ---------- (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt...... $162,734 $417,062 $105,093 $ 3,226 $1,442 $675,498 $1,365,055 $1,424,411 average interest rate............. 6.3% 4.1% 7.1% 7.9% 5.5% 5.9% 5.5% floating rate debt... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 15,000 $ 15,000 $ 15,000 average interest rate............. -- -- -- -- -- 1.4% 1.4% canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt...... $ 99 $ 196 $ 287 $ 316 $ 350 $ 18,453 $ 19,701 $ 20,558 average interest rate............. 9.4% 9.8% 9.8% 9.8% 9.8% 9.8% 9.8% floating rate debt... $ 73,834 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 73,834 $ 73,834 average interest rate............. 2.2% -- -- -- -- -- 2.2% interest rate position as of july 3, 2004 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total value -------- -------- -------- -------- ------ ---------- ---------- ---------- (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed.............. $ -- $ -- $200,000 $100,000 $ -- $ -- $ 300,000 $ (4,964) average variable rate paid: rate a plus........ -- -- 0.46% 0.43% -- -- 0.45% fixed rate received........... -- -- 7.00% 7.25% -- -- 7.08% pay variable/receive fixed.............. $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $200,000 $ 200,000 $ (466) average variable rate paid: rate b minus....... -- -- -- -- -- 0.62% 0.62% fixed rate received........... -- -- -- -- -- 4.60% 4.60% - --------------- rate a -- six-month libor averaged over a six month period rate b -- six-month libor in arrears 28 at june 28, 2003 the company had outstanding $151,748,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through october 2, 2003. the company's total long-term debt obligations of $1,270,414,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. at june 28, 2003, the company had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding. the following table presents the company's interest rate position as of june 28, 2003. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 28, 2003 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total value -------- -------- -------- -------- ------- ---------- ---------- ---------- (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt....... $ 20,616 $157,328 $420,390 $103,380 $ 4,015 $478,236 $1,183,965 $1,319,714 average interest rate.............. 5.3% 6.5% 4.0% 7.2% 7.9% 6.4% 5.6% floating rate debt.... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $49,926 $ 15,000 $ 64,926 $ 64,926 average interest rate.............. -- -- -- -- 1.2% 1.3% 1.3% canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt....... $ 331 $ 286 $ 377 $ 475 $ 512 $ 19,542 $ 21,523 $ 23,991 average interest rate.............. 6.5% 6.0% 7.1% 7.5% 7.6% 9.5% 9.3% floating rate debt.... $101,822 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 101,822 $ 101,822 average interest rate.............. 3.4% -- -- -- -- -- 3.4% the company does not believe that its foreign operations expose it to significant foreign exchange risk, since the exposure is limited primarily to canada which historically has had stable exchange rates, and for which the amounts are not material on an overall basis to sysco. 29quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk sysco does not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. sysco use of debt directly exposes the company to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes the company to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes the company to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that the company may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at a higher rate. sysco manages its debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. at july 2, 2005, the company had outstanding $157,851,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through july 29, 2005. the company total long-term debt obligations of $1,367,110,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. the company intends to issue between $350,000,000 and $500,000,000 of long-term debt in september 2005. the amount of long-term debt that sysco issues will depend upon market conditions at the time of issuance. in march 2005, sysco entered into a forward-starting interest rate swap with a notional amount of $350,000,000 as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on $350,000,000 of the forecasted debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. during fiscal 2004 and part of fiscal 2005, sysco had several fixed to floating interest rate swaps outstanding. these were entered into in fiscal 2004 as management believed that floating interest rates were more advantageous. during fiscal 2005, sysco terminated the fixed to floating interest rate swaps outstanding locking in effective yields on the related debt. management believes that present market conditions reflect fixed long term rates near historical lows. as such, management believes that fixed long term rates present a better opportunity than in the recent past and intends to issue long term debt at fixed rates with extended terms in september 2005. 23 table of contents in the following tables, commercial paper issuances are reflected as floating rate debt and the u.s. commercial paper is classified as long-term based on the maturity of the company revolving loan agreement which supports the company u.s. commercial paper program and the company intent to continue to refinance this facility on a long-term basis. the following tables present the company interest rate position as of july 2, 2005. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 2, 2005 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 410,724 $ 104,725 $ 3,918 $ 360 $ 350 $ 686,267 $ 1,206,344 $ 1,280,666 average interest rate 4.7 % 8.0 % 7.4 % 4.3 % 4.6 % 5.7 % 5.5 % floating rate debt $ 31,000 $ $ 124,853 $ $ $ 15,000 $ 170,853 $ 170,853 average interest rate 3.6 % 3.4 % 2.6 % 3.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 209 $ 306 $ 338 $ 372 $ 411 $ 19,277 $ 20,913 $ 22,201 average interest rate 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % floating rate debt $ 32,998 $ $ $ $ $ $ 32,998 $ 32,998 average interest rate 2.7 % 2.7 % interest rate position as of july 2, 2005 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay fixed/receive variable $ 350,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 350,000 $ (32,584 ) fixed rate paid: 5.345 % 5.345 % average variable rate received: rate a rate a rate a six-month libor (in advance) at july 3, 2004, the company had outstanding $73,834,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through october 7, 2004. the company total long-term debt obligations of $1,394,326,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. in addition, the company entered into interest rate swap agreements totaling $500,000,000 in notional amount whereby the company received interest payments at fixed rates of interest and paid interest at variable rates. the following tables present the company interest rate position as of july 3, 2004. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 3, 2004 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 162,734 $ 417,062 $ 105,093 $ 3,226 $ 1,442 $ 675,498 $ 1,365,055 $ 1,424,411 average interest rate 6.3 % 4.1 % 7.1 % 7.9 % 5.5 % 5.9 % 5.5 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 15,000 $ 15,000 $ 15,000 average interest rate 1.4 % 1.4 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 99 $ 196 $ 287 $ 316 $ 350 $ 18,453 $ 19,701 $ 20,558 average interest rate 9.4 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % floating rate debt $ 73,834 $ $ $ $ $ $ 73,834 $ 73,834 average interest rate 2.2 % 2.2 % 24 table of contents interest rate position as of july 3, 2004 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay variable/receive fixed $ $ $ 200,000 $ 100,000 $ $ $ 300,000 $ (4,964 ) average variable rate paid: rate a plus 4.61 % 4.30 % 4.50 % fixed rate received 7.00 % 7.25 % 7.08 % pay variable/receive fixed $ $ $ $ $ $ 200,000 $ 200,000 $ (466 ) average variable rate paid: rate b minus 0.62 % 0.62 % fixed rate received 4.60 % 4.60 % rate a six-month libor averaged over a six month period rate b six-month libor in arrears the company does not believe that its foreign operations expose it to significant foreign exchange risk, since the exposure is limited primarily to canada and for which the amounts are not material on an overall basis to sysco. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on the company results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price paid by sysco for product purchases for which sysco may not be able to pass these costs fully to its customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs incurred by sysco to deliver product to its customers. during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, fuel costs represented approximately 0.4%, 0.3% and 0.3% of sales, respectively. fuel costs incurred by sysco in fiscal 2005 increased by approximately $31,000,000 over fiscal 2004. in order to partially manage the volatility and uncertainty of fuel costs, sysco from time to time will enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of sysco projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. forward diesel fuel purchase commitments outstanding as of july 2, 2005 were not material. 25 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors low margin business; inflation and economic sensitivity the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. sysco makes a significant portion of its sales at prices that are based on the cost of products it sells plus a percentage markup. as a result, sysco profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though sysco gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. prolonged periods of product cost inflation also may have a negative impact on the company profit margins and earnings to the extent such product cost increases are not passed on to customers due to resistance to higher prices and the timing needed to pass on such increases. the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. inflation, fuel costs and other factors affecting consumer confidence and the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home may negatively impact sysco sales and operating results. sysco operating results are also sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, other factors, including difficulties collecting accounts receivable, competitive price pressures, severe weather conditions and unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. although these factors have not had a material adverse impact on sysco past operations, there can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not adversely affect future operating results. increased fuel costs increased fuel costs have recently had a negative impact on the company results of operations. the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. the high cost of fuel can also increase the price paid by sysco for products as well as the costs incurred by sysco to deliver products to its customers. these factors in turn negatively impact sysco sales, margins, operating expenses and operating results. interruption of supplies and increases in product costs sysco obtains substantially all of its foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. for the most part, sysco does not have long-term contracts with its suppliers committing them to provide products to sysco. although sysco purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by sysco in the quantities and at the prices requested. because sysco does not control the actual production of the products it sells, it also is subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside its control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, the outbreak of avian flu or similar food-borne illnesses in the united states and 5 table of contents canada). sysco inability to obtain adequate supplies of its foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that sysco could not fulfill its obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. baugh supply chain cooperative structure the national supply chain project involved the creation of bscc which administers a consolidated product procurement program to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. bscc is a cooperative for income tax purposes. sysco believes that the cooperative entity is appropriate for bscc based on the business operations of this affiliate and on the legal structure applied. however, if the application of the cooperative structure was to be disallowed by any federal, state or local tax authority, sysco could be required to accelerate the payment of a portion or all of its income tax liabilities that it otherwise has deferred until future periods and be liable for interest on such amounts. amounts included as deferred income tax liabilities related to bscc deferred supply chain distributions were $924,902,000 as of july 1, 2006. if sysco was required to accelerate a significant portion of these deferred tax liabilities, the company may be required to raise additional capital through debt financing or the issuance of equity or it may be required to forego or defer planned capital expenditures or share repurchases or a combination thereof and may be required to pay interest on amounts deferred. leverage and debt service because a substantial part of sysco growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion, sysco continued growth depends, in large part, on its ability to continue this expansion. as a result, its inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict its ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing the indebtedness of sysco could have a significant adverse effect on the company cash flows, as well as the market value of sysco common stock. further, sysco leveraged position may also increase its vulnerability to competitive pressures. product liability claims sysco, like any other seller of food, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by the company causes injury or illness. with respect to product liability claims, sysco believes it has sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of sysco liabilities. sysco generally seeks contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying its products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce sysco net earnings and earnings per share. reputation and media exposure maintaining a good reputation is critical to sysco business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. anything that damages that reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of the company products, could quickly affect its revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure the company reputation. if patrons of the company restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, the customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and sysco sales would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, even those unrelated to the use of sysco products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales to decrease dramatically. labor relations and availability of qualified labor as of july 1, 2006, approximately 8,800 employees at 55 operating companies were members of 61 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2007, 16 agreements covering approximately 2,000 employees will expire. failure of the operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although sysco operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and sysco believes they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on sysco. 6 table of contents sysco operations rely heavily on its employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect the company business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve its customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in the company revenue and earnings. charter and preferred stock under its restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1.5 million shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquiror. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to sysco stockholders could be deterred. tax audit as of july 1, 2006, the company 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns were under audit by the internal revenue service (irs). the company believes that it has appropriate support for the positions taken on these tax returns and has recorded a liability for its best estimate of the probable loss on certain of these positions. however, if the irs disagrees with the positions taken by the company on its tax returns, sysco could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. if material, payment of such amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have an adverse effect on the company financial results and cash flows. reliance on technology sysco ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as its ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of its technology network. the company uses software and other technology systems to load trucks in the most efficient manner to optimize the use of storage space and minimize the time spent at each stop. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact sysco customer service, decrease the volume of its business and result in increased costs. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate the company from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk sysco does not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. sysco use of debt directly exposes the company to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes the company to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes the company to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that the company may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at a higher rate. sysco manages its debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. in september 2005, sysco issued 5.375% senior notes totaling $500,000,000 due on september 21, 2035. in conjunction with the issuance of the 5.375% senior notes, sysco settled a $350,000,000 notional amount forward-starting interest rate swap which was designated as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on the debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. at july 1, 2006, the company had outstanding $399,568,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through july 3, 2006. the company total long-term debt obligations of $1,733,392,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. the company had no interest rate swaps outstanding at july 1, 2006. in the following table as of july 1, 2006, commercial paper issuances are reflected as floating rate debt and both the u.s. and canadian commercial paper issuances outstanding are classified as long-term based on the maturity date of the company revolving loan agreement which supports the company u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs and the company intent to continue to refinance this facility on a long-term basis. the following table presents the company interest rate position as of july 1, 2006. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 1, 2006 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 106,230 $ 4,596 $ 962 $ 894 $ 897 $ 1,205,210 $ 1,318,789 $ 1,255,398 average interest rate 8.0 % 7.4 % 6.2 % 7.1 % 7.9 % 5.8 % 6.0 % floating rate debt $ 29,300 $ $ $ $ 381,945 $ 8,000 $ 419,245 $ 419,245 average interest rate 1.5 % 5.3 % 4.0 % 5.0 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 35 $ $ $ $ $ $ 35 $ 33 average interest rate 7.4 % 7.4 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 24,623 $ $ 24,623 $ 24,623 average interest rate 4.4 % 4.4 % 28 table of contents at july 2, 2005, the company had $157,851,000 of commercial paper outstanding at variable rates of interest with maturities through july 29, 2005. the company total long-term debt obligations of $1,367,110,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. at that time, management believed that present market conditions reflected fixed long term rates near historical lows. as such, management believed that fixed long term rates presented a better opportunity than in the recent past and had the intent to issue between $350,000,000 and $500,000,000 of long term debt at fixed rates with extended terms in september 2005, the amount to be issued depending upon market conditions at the time of issuance. in march 2005, sysco entered into a forward-starting interest rate swap with a notional amount of $350,000,000 as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on $350,000,000 of the forecasted debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. the issuance of this long-term debt in fiscal 2006 is discussed above. during part of fiscal 2005, sysco had several fixed to floating interest rate swaps outstanding. these were entered into in fiscal 2004 as management believed that floating interest rates were more advantageous. during fiscal 2005, sysco terminated the fixed to floating interest rate swaps outstanding locking in effective yields on the related debt. in the following tables as of july 2, 2005, commercial paper issuances are reflected as floating rate debt and the u.s. commercial paper is classified as long-term based on the maturity date of the company revolving loan agreement which supports the company u.s. commercial paper program and the company intent to continue to refinance this facility on a long-term basis. the following tables present the company interest rate position as of july 2, 2005. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 2, 2005 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 410,724 $ 104,725 $ 3,918 $ 360 $ 350 $ 686,267 $ 1,206,344 $ 1,280,666 average interest rate 4.7 % 8.0 % 7.4 % 4.3 % 4.6 % 5.7 % 5.5 % floating rate debt $ 31,000 $ $ 124,853 $ $ $ 15,000 $ 170,853 $ 170,853 average interest rate 3.6 % 3.4 % 2.6 % 3.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 209 $ 306 $ 338 $ 372 $ 411 $ 19,277 $ 20,913 $ 22,201 average interest rate 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % floating rate debt $ 32,998 $ $ $ $ $ $ 32,998 $ 32,998 average interest rate 2.7 % 2.7 % interest rate position as of july 2, 2005 notional amount by expected maturity average interest swap rate 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) interest rate swaps related to debt: pay fixed/receive variable $ 350,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 350,000 $ (32,584 ) fixed rate paid: 5.345 % 5.345 % average variable rate received: rate a rate a rate a six-month libor (in advance) the company has canadian subsidiaries, all of which use the canadian dollar as their functional currency with the exception of a financing subsidiary. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in canadian dollars, the company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. sysco will also incur gains and losses within shareholders equity due to translation of the financial statements from canadian dollars to u.s. dollars. the canadian financing subsidiary has notes denominated in u.s. dollars, which has the potential to create taxable income in canada when the debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2006 year end exchange rate would not materially increase the tax liability associated with these notes. the company does not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency risks. 29 table of contents the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on the company results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price paid by sysco for product purchases for which sysco may not be able to pass these costs fully to its customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs incurred by sysco to deliver product to its customers. during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, fuel costs represented approximately 0.5%, 0.4% and 0.3% of sales, respectively. fuel costs incurred by sysco in fiscal 2006 increased by approximately $48,600,000 over fiscal 2005. in order to partially manage the volatility and uncertainty of fuel costs, sysco from time to time will enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of sysco projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. forward diesel fuel purchase commitments outstanding as of july 1, 2006 were not material. 30 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors our low margin business may be negatively impacted by product cost deflation, product cost inflation or other economic conditions the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins. we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. prolonged periods of product cost inflation also may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on such product cost increases. the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. inflation, fuel costs and other factors affecting consumer confidence and the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home may negatively impact our sales and operating results. our operating results are also sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, other factors, including difficulties collecting accounts receivable, competitive price pressures, severe weather conditions and unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. although these factors have not had a material adverse impact on our past operations, there can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not adversely affect future operating results. increased fuel costs can lower demand for our products and increase our costs increased fuel costs can have a negative impact on our results of operations. the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. the high cost of fuel can also increase the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. these factors in turn may negatively impact our sales, margins, operating expenses and operating results. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to, the outbreak of avian flu or similar food-borne illnesses in the united states and canada). our inability to obtain adequate supplies of our foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. taxing authorities may successfully challenge our baugh supply chain cooperative structure the national supply chain project involved the creation of the bscc which administers a consolidated product procurement program to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. bscc is a cooperative taxed under subchapter t of the united states internal revenue code. we believe that the deferred tax liabilities resulting from the business operations and legal ownership of bscc are appropriate under the tax laws. however, if the application of the tax laws to the cooperative structure of bscc were to be successfully challenged by any federal, state or local tax authority, we could be required to accelerate the payment of all or a portion of our income tax liabilities associated with bscc that we otherwise had deferred until future periods, and in that event, would be liable for interest on such amounts. as of june 30, 2007, we have recorded deferred income tax liabilities of $988,000,000 related to the bscc supply chain distributions. this amount represents the income tax liabilities related to bscc that were accrued, but the payment had been deferred as of june 30, 2007. in addition, if the irs or any other taxing authority determines that all amounts since the inception of bscc were inappropriately deferred or that bscc should have been a taxable entity, we estimate that in addition to making a current payment for amounts previously deferred, as discussed above, we may have additional liability, representing interest that would be payable on the cumulative deferred balances ranging from $185,000,000 to $205,000,000, prior to federal and state income tax benefit, as of june 30, 2007. we calculated this amount based upon the amounts deferred since the inception of bscc applying the applicable jurisdictions interest rates in effect each period. during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the internal revenue service (irs), in connection with its audit of our 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns, proposed adjustments related to the taxability of bscc. we are vigorously protesting these adjustments. we have reviewed the merits of the issues raised by the irs and based upon such review, we have not recorded any related amount in any period. a taxing authority requiring us to accelerate the payment of these deferred tax liabilities and to pay related interest, if any, could cause us to raise additional capital through debt financing or the issuance of equity or we may have to forego or defer planned capital expenditures or share repurchases or a combination of these items. 5 table of contents we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow because a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion, our continued growth depends, in large part, on our ability to continue this expansion. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. further, our leveraged position may also increase our vulnerability to competitive pressures. product liability claims could materially and adversely impact our business we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. adverse publicity could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings maintaining a good reputation is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. anything that damages that reputation, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, even those unrelated to the use of sysco products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales to decrease dramatically. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages as of june 30, 2007, approximately 9,000 employees at 54 operating companies were members of 60 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2008, 14 agreements covering approximately 2,300 employees will expire. failure of the operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. we may be required to pay material amounts under multi-employer defined benefit pension plans we contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 11% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. in fiscal 2007, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $37,296,000. we do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that some of these multi-employer plans are underfunded due partially to a decline in the value of the assets supporting these plans, a reduction in the number of actively participating members for whom employer contributions are required, and the level of benefits provided by the plans. in addition, the pension protection act, enacted in august 2006, will require under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their under-funding, perhaps beginning as soon as calendar 2008. as a result, our required contributions to these plans may increase in the future. under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any under-funded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to make 6 table of contents payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan unfunded vested liabilities. based on the information available from plan administrators, we estimate that our share of withdrawal liability on all the multi-employer plans we participate in, some of which appear to be under-funded, could be as much as $120,000,000. in addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the irs may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses wisely historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited or no expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. expanding into international markets presents unique challenges and our expansion efforts and international operations may not be successful in addition to our importing and exporting activities, our strategy includes expansion of operations into new international markets. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations. our preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be beneficial to stockholders under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. technology dependence could have a material negative impact on our business our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems to load trucks in the most efficient manner to optimize the use of storage space and minimize the time spent at each stop. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2007 as of june 30, 2007, we had outstanding $531,826,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through september 24, 2007. excluding commercial paper issuances, our long-term debt obligations as of june 30, 2007 of $1,229,969,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. we had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of june 30, 2007. in the following table as of june 30, 2007, commercial paper issuances are reflected as floating rate debt and both the u.s. and canadian commercial paper issuances outstanding are classified as long-term based on the maturity date of our revolving loan agreement which supports our u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs and our intent to continue to refinance this facility on a long-term basis. 27 table of contents the following table presents our interest rate position as of june 30, 2007. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 30, 2007 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 3,149 $ 3,525 $ 976 $ 679 $ 200,641 $ 982,214 $ 1,191,184 $ 1,124,343 average interest rate 5.1 % 5.9 % 2.1 % 1.5 % 6.1 % 5.6 % 5.7 % floating rate debt $ 18,900 $ $ $ $ 487,727 $ 15,000 $ 521,627 $ 521,627 average interest rate 5.7 % 5.3 % 4.4 % 5.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 419 $ 434 $ 478 $ 602 $ 704 $ 21,148 $ 23,785 $ 22,450 average interest rate 9.5 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 44,099 $ $ 44,099 $ 44,099 average interest rate 4.4 % 4.4 % fiscal 2006 in september 2005, we issued 5.375% senior notes totaling $500,000,000 due on september 21, 2035. in conjunction with the issuance of the 5.375% senior notes, we settled a $350,000,000 notional amount forward-starting interest rate swap which was designated as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on the debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. as of july 1, 2006, we had outstanding $399,568,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through july 3, 2006. excluding commercial paper issuances, our long-term debt obligations as of july 1, 2006 of $1,333,824,000 were primarily at fixed rates of interest. we had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of july 1, 2006. in the following table as of july 1, 2006, commercial paper issuances are reflected as floating rate debt and both the u.s. and canadian commercial paper issuances outstanding are classified as long-term based on the maturity date of our revolving loan agreement which supports our u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs and our intent to continue to refinance this facility on a long-term basis. the following table presents our interest rate position as of july 1, 2006. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of july 1, 2006 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 105,924 $ 4,221 $ 548 $ 438 $ 322 $ 1,184,354 $ 1,295,807 $ 1,233,520 average interest rate 8.0 % 7.2 % 3.4 % 4.3 % 4.6 % 5.7 % 5.9 % floating rate debt $ 29,300 $ $ $ $ 381,945 $ 8,000 $ 419,245 $ 419,245 average interest rate 1.5 % 5.3 % 4.0 % 5.0 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 341 $ 375 $ 414 $ 456 $ 575 $ 20,856 $ 23,017 $ 21,911 average interest rate 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 24,623 $ $ 24,623 $ 24,623 average interest rate 4.4 % 4.4 % foreign currency exchange rate risk we have canadian subsidiaries, all of which use the canadian dollar as their functional currency with the exception of a financing subsidiary. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in canadian dollars, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within shareholders equity due to translation of the financial statements from canadian dollars to u.s. dollars. our canadian financing subsidiary has notes denominated in u.s. dollars, which has the potential to create taxable income in canada when the debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2007 year-end exchange rate would not materially increase the tax liability associated with these notes. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency risks. fuel price risk the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, fuel costs represented approximately 0.6%, 0.5% and 0.4% of sales, 28 table of contents respectively. fuel costs incurred by sysco increased by approximately $21,225,000 in fiscal 2007 over fiscal 2006 and $48,600,000 in fiscal 2006 over fiscal 2005. in order to partially manage the volatility and uncertainty of fuel costs, from time to time, we will enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 30, 2007, outstanding forward diesel fuel purchase commitments totaled approximately $44,500,000, which will lock in the price on a substantial portion of our fuel purchases through the end of calendar year 2007. 29 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors increased fuel costs and increased inflation have increased our costs and we may not be able to compensate for such increased costs increased fuel costs have had a negative impact on our fiscal 2008 results of operations. the high cost of fuel has increased the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. although we have been able to pass along a portion of our increased fuel costs to our customers, there is no guarantee that we can continue to do so. in addition, prolonged periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on such product cost increases. our estimate for the inflation in sysco cost of goods was 6.0% in fiscal 2008, compared to 3.4% in fiscal 2007 and 0.6% in fiscal 2006. if fuel costs and product costs continue to increase, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. inflation, rising fuel costs and other economic conditions are affecting consumer confidence, which is currently adversely impacting our business and we currently expect these conditions to continue into fiscal 2009 the foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. inflation, increases in fuel costs and other general economic conditions have negatively affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending in fiscal 2008. this has led to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home and can also result in reduction of sales volumes, competitive price pressures, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, increases in our product costs and increases in delivery costs. these conditions have, in turn, negatively impacted our sales, as noted by declining rate of sales growth from 8.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to 5.4% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and have also negatively impacted our operating results for fiscal 2008. these conditions are expected to continue to negatively impact our results for the foreseeable future. conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs we obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. for the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. these conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses in the united states and canada). our inability to obtain adequate supplies of our foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors. taxing authorities may successfully challenge our baugh supply chain cooperative structure the baugh supply chain cooperative (bscc) administers a consolidated product procurement program to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. bscc is a cooperative taxed under subchapter t of the united states internal revenue code. we believe that the deferred tax liabilities resulting from the business operations and legal ownership of bscc are appropriate under the tax laws. however, if the application of the tax laws to the cooperative structure of bscc were to be successfully challenged by any federal, state or local tax authority, we could be required to accelerate the payment of all or a portion of our income tax liabilities associated with bscc that we otherwise had deferred until future periods. in that event, we would be liable for interest on such amounts. as of june 28, 2008, we have recorded deferred income tax liabilities of $1,054,190,000 related to the bscc supply chain distributions. this amount represents the income tax liabilities related to bscc that were accrued, but the payment had been deferred as of june 28, 2008. in addition, if the irs or any other taxing authority determines that all amounts since the inception of bscc were inappropriately deferred or that bscc should have been a taxable entity, we estimate that in addition to making a current payment for amounts previously deferred, as discussed above, we may have additional liability, representing interest that would be payable on the cumulative deferred balances ranging from $290,000,000 to $320,000,000, prior to federal and state income tax benefit, as of june 28, 2008. we calculated this amount based upon the amounts deferred since the inception of bscc applying the applicable jurisdictions interest rates in effect each period. the irs, in connection with its audit of our 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns, proposed adjustments related to the taxability of the cooperative structure. we are vigorously protesting these adjustments. we have reviewed the merits of the issues raised by the irs and concluded the measurement model of fasb interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 required us to provide an accrual for a portion of the interest exposure. if a taxing authority requires us to accelerate the payment of these deferred tax liabilities and to pay related interest, if any, we may be required to raise additional capital through debt financing or the issuance of equity or we may have to forego share repurchases or defer planned capital expenditures or a combination of these items. we need access to borrowed funds in order to grow, but our leveraged position could increase our vulnerability to competitive pressures because a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion, our continued growth depends, in large part, on our ability to continue this expansion. as a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds 5 table of contents could restrict our ability to expand. moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. further, our leveraged position may also increase our vulnerability to competitive pressures. product liability claims could materially impact our business we, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by sysco causes injury or illness. with respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. however, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. we generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. if sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share. adverse publicity could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings maintaining a good reputation is critical to our business, particularly to selling sysco brand products. anything that damages that reputation, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis a, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation. if patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales would be correspondingly decreased. in addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, even those unrelated to the use of sysco products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales to decrease dramatically. failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages as of june 28, 2008, approximately 8,700 employees at 54 operating companies were members of 57 different local unions associated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and other labor organizations. in fiscal 2009, 14 agreements covering approximately 1,900 employees have expired or will expire. failure of the operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. a shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. any such shortage would decrease sysco ability to effectively serve our customers. such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings. we may be required to pay material amounts under multi-employer defined benefit pension plans we contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. approximately 12% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. in fiscal 2008, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $35,040,000. we do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that some of these multi-employer plans are underfunded due partially to a decline in the value of the assets supporting these plans, a reduction in the number of actively participating members for whom employer contributions are required, and the level of benefits provided by the plans. in addition, the pension protection act, enacted in august 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. as a result, our required contributions to these plans may increase in the future. under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan unfunded vested liabilities. based on the information available from plan administrators, we estimate that our share of withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans we participate in, some of which appear to be underfunded, could be as much as $140,000,000, of which only approximately $22,000,000 has been accrued as of june 28, 2008. in addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the irs may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations. 6 table of contents product cost deflation may also adversely impact future operations although we are currently experiencing a period of product cost inflation, our business may also be adversely impacted by periods of prolonged product cost deflation. we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. as a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. we must finance and integrate acquired businesses wisely historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited or no expertise, or with a culture different from sysco s. a significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. expanding into international markets presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts and international operations may not be successful in addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes expansion of operations into new international markets. our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations. our preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be beneficial to stockholders under our restated certificate of incorporation, sysco board of directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. in addition, if anyone attempts to acquire sysco without approval of the board of directors of sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the board of directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. as a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred. technology dependence could have a material negative impact on our business our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. we use software and other technology systems, among other things, to load trucks in the most efficient manner to optimize the use of storage space and minimize the time spent at each stop. any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. while sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates. we manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that goal. the major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. fiscal 2008 as of june 28, 2008, we had no commercial paper outstanding. our long-term debt obligations as of june 28, 2008 were $1,980,331,000, of which approximately 99% were at fixed rates of interest. we had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of june 28, 2008. the following table presents our interest rate position as of june 28, 2008. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 28, 2008 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 4,437 $ 3,366 $ 2,318 $ 201,205 $ 251,055 $ 1,478,309 $ 1,940,690 $ 1,889,602 average interest rate 3.7 % 3.8 % 4.2 % 6.1 % 4.3 % 5.5 % 5.4 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 15,000 $ 15,000 $ 15,000 average interest rate 2.2 % 2.2 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 459 $ 506 $ 637 $ 744 $ 818 $ 21,477 $ 24,641 $ 23,992 average interest rate 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average interest rate fiscal 2007 as of june 30, 2007, we had outstanding $531,826,000 of commercial paper at variable rates of interest with maturities through september 24, 2007. excluding commercial paper issuances, our long-term debt obligations as of june 30, 2007 were $1,229,969,000, of which approximately 99% were at fixed rates of interest. we had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of june 30, 2007. 28 table of contents in the following table as of june 30, 2007, commercial paper issuances are reflected as floating rate debt and both the u.s. and canadian commercial paper issuances outstanding are classified as long-term based on the maturity date of our revolving loan agreement which supports our u.s. and canadian commercial paper programs and our intent to continue to refinance this facility on a long-term basis. the following table presents our interest rate position as of june 30, 2007. all amounts are stated in u.s. dollar equivalents. interest rate position as of june 30, 2007 principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value (in thousands) u.s. $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 3,149 $ 3,525 $ 976 $ 679 $ 200,641 $ 982,214 $ 1,191,184 $ 1,124,343 average interest rate 5.1 % 5.9 % 2.1 % 1.5 % 6.1 % 5.6 % 5.7 % floating rate debt $ 18,900 $ $ $ $ 487,727 $ 15,000 $ 521,627 $ 521,627 average interest rate 5.7 % 5.3 % 4.4 % 5.3 % canadian $ denominated: fixed rate debt $ 419 $ 434 $ 478 $ 602 $ 704 $ 21,148 $ 23,785 $ 22,450 average interest rate 9.5 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % 9.8 % floating rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 44,099 $ $ 44,099 $ 44,099 average interest rate 4.4 % 4.4 % foreign currency exchange rate risk we have canadian subsidiaries, all of which use the canadian dollar as their functional currency with the exception of a financing subsidiary. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in canadian dollars, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. we will also incur gains and losses within shareholders equity due to translation of the financial statements from canadian dollars to u.s. dollars. our canadian financing subsidiary has notes denominated in u.s. dollars, which has the potential to create taxable income in canada when the debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. a 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2008 year-end exchange rate and the resulting increase in the tax liability associated with these notes would not have a material impact on our results of operations. we do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency risks. fuel price risk the price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. first, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.6%, 0.6% and 0.5% of sales, respectively. fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by sysco increased by approximately $34,023,000 in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 and $21,225,000 in fiscal 2007 over fiscal 2006. from time to time, we will enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. as of june 28, 2008, we had no outstanding forward diesel fuel purchase commitments. in july and august 2008, we entered into forward diesel fuel purchase commitments totaling approximately $195,000,000 through july 2009, which will lock in the price on approximately 50% of our fuel purchases through the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2009 and approximately 70% of our fuel purchases needs for the last 26 weeks of fiscal 2009. if fuel prices continue at current levels, fuel costs in the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2009, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $55,000,000 to $65,000,000 as compared to the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2008. our estimate is based upon the prevailing market prices for diesel mid-august 2008, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place and estimates of fuel consumption. actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. a 10% unfavorable or favorable change in diesel prices from the market price used in our estimates above would change the range of potential increase to $50,000,000 to $70,000,000. 29