risk factors 22 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the occurrence of any of the following risks or of unknown risks and uncertainties may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. risks relating to our businesses our performance depends on successful improvements to our existing products and services, commercialization of new products and services and increasingly on our ability to anticipate emerging trends in oncology diagnosis, treatment and management. the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. our performance depends on the successful commercialization of new products and services that reflect and respond to changes in the marketplace, technology and customer demands and increasingly on our ability to anticipate emerging trends in oncology diagnosis, treatment and management. our oncology systems hardware and software products often have long development and government approval cycles, are technologically complex and must demonstrate high levels of performance and functionality to remain competitive. our software products compete in markets characterized by rapid technological advances, changing delivery models, evolving standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and software-as-a-service ( saas ) solutions. the development and introduction of new software platforms and delivery models, as well as different business models, is complex and involves many technological, regulatory and legal hurdles. we cannot assure you that we can successfully develop and implement such platforms or models or that our customers will accept them. 22 our proton solutions products require intensive planning, design, development, testing and capital commitment. because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems, there is increasing demand for the development of smaller, more compact proton therapy systems. although we have introduced our probeam compact single-room proton therapy solution and our probeam 360 single room and multi-room systems, other companies have more experience offering smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems. our competitiveness will depend on our ability to continue to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. our interventional solutions business offers products for interventional oncology procedures and treatments, including cryoablation, microwave ablation and embolization the success of our interventional oncology business will depend on general market penetration and acceptance of interventional solutions among physicians, the medical community, healthcare payors and patients, and our ability to develop and successfully market technologically competitive products and win market share from other companies in spaces where they have greater resources than we do. in addition to hardware and software products for oncology care, we offer treatment planning and quality assurance as a service, which allows remote delivery and support of care in understaffed locations to utilize technology on a per patient basis. our ability to realize the full potential of these services will depend heavily on our ability to deploy them using ai-based software solutions and developing such software solutions. we may need to spend more time and money than anticipated to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or services. we may not be able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investments. new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products or make them less desirable or even obsolete. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be disproportionately greater than the costs associated with existing products, and if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, product enhancements and services depends, among other things, on our ability to: properly identify and respond to customer needs; demonstrate the value proposition of new products and services; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns or shortages caused by phase-in of new products and services and phase-out of old products and services; price our products and services competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; and manage customer demands for new and old products and services, and optimize complementary product lines and services. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully commercialize new products because commercialization involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the fda. failure to complete these processes on a timely and efficient basis could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders. in addition, a portion of our oncology systems' product revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, and our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred where it takes longer to manufacture or install the new products. customers may also decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. 23 we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or more effective technologies, or be forced to reduce our prices. the markets for cancer treatment are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab and accuray incorporated. in addition, our software products compete with the product offerings of a variety of companies, such as philips medical systems, raysearch laboratories ab and brainlab ag. new competitors may enter our markets and have already entered some of our newer markets such as radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. established enterprise software developers with greater software development capability may enter the markets for cancer treatment software. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical capabilities, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. new competitors may also delay the purchasing decisions of customers if customers decide to evaluate the products of such competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders and revenues. the shift in the proportion of sales outside the united states towards emerging market countries, which typically purchase less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition and longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our primary competitors in the proton therapy market are hitachi heavy industries, ion beam applications s.a. and mevion medical systems. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, and develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver precise, cost-effective, high quality capabilities. the market for interventional solutions products is relatively new, still developing and is marked by a wide variety of products, many of which have had varying degrees of market acceptance. our primary competitors in the interventional solutions market include boston scientific corp., terumo medical corp., merit medical systems, angiodynamics, medtronic and johnson &amp; johnson, many of which have greater experience in the interventional oncology market and more financial and other resources than we do. the successful development of alternative therapies for cancer (e.g. pharmaceutical treatments such as immunotherapy), increased efficacy information about new therapies or existing products, pricing decisions by competitors and the rate of market penetration by competitive products may render our products obsolete, result in lost market share for us, reduce utilization of our products, lower prices, and reduce product sales and operating margins. the timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength and resources, which could enable them to compete more aggressively and effectively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. the interoperability of radiation oncology treatment products is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to establish interoperability. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focused on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (1) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (2) making our software products easier to use and (3) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated, and a high level of training and education is required to use them safely and effectively. 24 we have emphasized an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and offer various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and vmat and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with other products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes or delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive to our customers. disruption of our critical information systems or material cyberattacks or security breaches of our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. there is an increasing threat of information security attacks for companies such as varian. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. if our data management systems fail to effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. we manufacture and sell (i) hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and (ii) software products that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information. both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. while we have implemented security measures to protect our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and saas software products which reside with and are hosted by third-party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services, could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. if we were to experience a significant cyberattack or security breach of our information systems or data, the costs associated with the investigation, remediation and potential notification of the breach to customers and counter-parties could be material. 25 we carry a limited amount of insurance for cybersecurity liability, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate. in the future, our insurance coverage may be expensive and/or not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. we may offer extended payment terms to certain customers, which could adversely affect our financial results. we offer extended payment terms for certain qualified customers. as of september 27, 2019 , customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately 4% of our net trade and unbilled receivables. while we qualify customers to whom we offer extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer payment term. many of the customers to which we offer such extended payment terms are located in underdeveloped legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. concerns over economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, extended payment terms decrease our cash flow from operations. in addition to extended payment terms, in some cases the purchase price for our hardware products is also variable based on the number of patients treated with the product, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue. economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable. revenues outside of the united states accounted for approximately 57% , 55% , and 53% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. correspondingly, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so. we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover these investments in international markets. our results of operation could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, among other things: lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products and services in international regions, and in emerging markets in particular; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the typically longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in certain international and emerging markets; currency fluctuations; difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through the legal systems of many foreign countries; unstable regional political and economic conditions or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region, including as a result of the pending united kingdom (the u.k. ) exit from the european union ( e.u. ) ( brexit ); the imposition by governments, including the united states, of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs or other restrictions on foreign trade; any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals; any inability to comply with export or import laws and requirements or any violation of sanctions regulations, which may result in enforcement actions, civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on exportation; any increase in the cost of trade compliance functions to comply with changes to regulatory requirements; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements to conduct business in a foreign jurisdiction; and 26 the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. tariffs or cross-border trade restrictions could increase the cost of our products. between july 2018 and may 2019, the trump administration imposed a series of tariffs, ranging from 5% to 25%, on numerous products imported into the united states from china, including varian's radiotherapy systems manufactured in china and certain components used in our manufacturing and service activities. in july and august of 2018, china retaliated against the u.s. tariffs by imposing its own series of tariffs, ranging from 10% to 25%, on certain products imported into china from the united states, including varian's radiotherapy systems and certain manufacturing and service components. we participated in the office of the u.s. trade representative ( ustr ) process to seek product-specific exclusions from the u.s. tariffs on chinese imports. to date, ustr has granted tariff exclusions for four products: certain radiotherapy systems manufactured in china, as well as three key components of the radiation therapy systems that we manufacture in the united states: multi-leaf collimators, certain printed circuit board assemblies and tungsten shielding. we submitted an additional u.s. exclusion request in september 2019, in relation to a manufacturing component, which request is pending. in june and july 2019, varian submitted formal requests to the chinese government for exclusions from the chinese retaliatory tariffs for manufacturing inputs, service parts and radiotherapy systems imported into china from the united states. in september 2019, the chinese government granted a tariff exclusion for medical linear accelerators, including our radiotherapy systems. the other exclusion requests are still pending. the u.s. and chinese government tariff exclusions have retroactive effect and are valid for one-year periods, with anticipated renewal processes. these tariffs and any additional tariffs or tariff increases imposed by the united states or china that apply to our systems or component parts could increase the costs of our products and adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and/or our operational results in the future. in addition, while to date several of our exclusion requests to ustr and china have been successful, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional tariff exclusion requests or that any existing tariff exclusions that have been granted will be renewed. in addition, while we believe we are eligible for refunds for tariffs that have been levied following the grant of the tariff exclusions, there can be no assurance that we will ultimately receive such refunds, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results. because our business is global, and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we sell in foreign markets. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast accuracy. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. furthermore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not in another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis, typically up to the next twelve-month period. therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over a longer term. long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. a substantial portion of our international sales are priced in local currencies, although our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. therefore, the strengthening of the u.s. dollar may adversely affect our competitiveness and financial results, as our foreign competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies and they may be more competitive when the u.s. dollar strengthens against those currencies. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. furthermore, if one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. 27 unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial results. from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims. for example, in october 2018, best medical international, inc. ("best medical") filed a complaint for patent infringement against us in the united states district court for the district of delaware alleging that several of our products infringe several of best medical's patents. based on currently available information, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of loss or range of losses, if any, arising from this matter. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products. we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. in addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. as customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase, as customers combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. if orders increase in size and require more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable and could result in longer overall order to revenue cycles. in addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an accountable care organization ( aco ) environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in pricing could negatively impact gross orders, future revenues and gross margins. our business will suffer if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products. in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to (i) educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, vmat, srs, sbrt, proton therapy or procedures using our interventional oncology products, (ii) overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, (iii) convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs, and (iv) help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources to marketing and educational efforts to (a) create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat radiotherapy, srs, sbrt, proton therapy or procedures using our interventional oncology products, (b) encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and (c) promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel. our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers, as well as universities and research institutions. as we continue to grow our software revenues, we face intense competition for personnel from software and technology companies. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our 28 business. in addition, some of our executive officers have had long careers at our company. if these executives retire or leave, and we are unable to locate qualified or suitable replacements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products or technologies, which could harm our business. we need to grow and evolve our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. from time to time we may decide to execute on our strategy of becoming the global leader in multi-disciplinary, integrated cancer care solutions through the acquisition of, or investments in, businesses, products or technologies, rather than through organic development. for example, we completed five acquisitions in fiscal year 2019. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, negotiating and completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and adversely affect our financial results. there can be no assurance that the businesses, products or technologies we acquire, or the businesses we invest in, will become profitable or remain so. it may cost us more than anticipated to commercialize acquired business product lines, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or require us to increase our research and development, sales and marketing or general and administrative expenses, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations. moreover, our failure to successfully manage the growth of an acquired businesses could have an adverse impact on the overall financial performance of our business. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: our ability to retain key employees of the acquired businesses; the performance of the acquired businesses and their technologies, products or services; our ability to integrate the operations, financial and other systems of the acquired businesses; the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies such as increasing sales of the combined company's products and services, achieving expected cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products and services; any disruption in order fulfillment or loss of sales due to integration processes; increases in our risk of litigation, as a third-party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim; the absence of adequate internal controls and/or the presence of fraud in the acquired businesses; our ability to retain or grow the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners; any decrease in customer and distributor loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the product lines and sales and marketing practices of the acquired businesses, including price increases; and our assumption of known contingent liabilities, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or unknown liabilities that come to light, in each case to the extent that the realization of such liabilities increases our expenses or adversely affects our business or financial position. when we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and we record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth or cash flows from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, from time to time we structure our acquisitions to include earnout provisions that require us to pay the sellers of the businesses we acquire additional cash payments upon the accomplishment of financial performance or developmental milestones in the periods following the acquisition closing date. any changes to our estimate of the expected earnout payments after the close of the acquisition up to and including the final payment, would generally be reflected on our statement of earnings. moreover, acquisitions can result in 29 potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. additionally, we have investments in privately held companies. these investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize or achieve expectations. if these companies do not succeed, we may be forced to record impairment charges and could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. our efforts to integrate acquired businesses may not be successful, and this may adversely affect our financial results. the success of business acquisitions may depend on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business. integrating the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of operations, manufacturing, personnel, information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing and finance. these efforts can be compounded when the acquisitions are in new geographies or business lines. if these integration efforts are not successful, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully, may take longer to realize than expected, or may not be realized at all. our efforts to successfully integrate acquisitions may also result in additional expenses and divert significant amounts of management's time from other projects. acquiring or implementing new business lines or offering new products and services may subject us to additional risks. from time to time, we may acquire or implement new business lines or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. for example, with our june 2019 acquisition of cancer treatment international ( ctsi ), we entered the healthcare provider space and plan to expand into treatment planning and service, and with our july and august 2019 acquisitions of endocare and alicon we entered the interventional oncology market. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. we may invest significant time and resources in developing, marketing, or acquiring new lines of business and/or offering new products and services. initial timetables for the introduction and development or acquisition of new lines of business and/or the offering of new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may prove to be unachievable. our lack of experience or knowledge, as well as external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the success of an acquisition or the implementation or of a new line of business or a new product or service. entry into a new line of business and/or offering a new product or service may also subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar and may lead to increased litigation or regulatory risk. furthermore, any new business line and/or new product or service could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. new business lines or new products and services within existing lines of business could affect the sales and profitability of existing lines of business or products and services, including as a result of sales channel conflicts. other risks include: (i) potential diversion of management's attention, available cash, and other resources from our existing businesses; (ii) unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; (iii) the need for additional capital and other resources to expand into or acquire the new line of business; (iv) potential damage to existing customer relationships, lack of customer acceptance or inability to attract new customers; and (v) the inability to compete effectively. these risks would be magnified to the extent that any new business line would result in a significant increase in operations in developing markets. failure to successfully manage these risks in the implementation or acquisition of new lines of business or the offering of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. losing distributors may harm our revenues in some territories. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales or the ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. the results of studies and clinical trials are highly uncertain. we have in the past conducted, and, in the future may continue to conduct, clinical trials related to prospective new therapies and technologies, including most recently pre-clinical studies in relation to ultra-high dose rate cancer treatments using our probeam platform. the results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of product candidates or new therapies and technologies may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials, and favorable data from interim analyses do not ensure that the final results of a trial will be favorable. product candidates or new therapies and technologies may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials, or despite having produced favorable data in connection with an interim analysis. a number of companies in our industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising 30 results in earlier trials. in addition, even if such clinical trials are successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as we do, and more trials could be required before we submit our product candidates, new therapies or technologies for approval. to the extent that the results of trials are not satisfactory to the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application or desired reimbursement classification product codes, we may be required to expend significant resources, which may not be available to us, to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of our product candidates, new therapies or technologies. our credit facility restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial position. we maintain a credit facility that contains affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. we have in the past used borrowings under our credit facility to fund the repurchase of our shares, and we may continue to do so in the future. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in the interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results. we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), the american institute of certified public accountants, the sec and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate each period. we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles than we have applied in past periods, including accounting principles regarding revenue recognition. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may also make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control. we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. in addition, we have operations in parts of the world, including cancer centers in parts of india, which have experienced natural disasters such as tsunamis, floods and drought. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, drought, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace the damaged facilities. these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal or may move to a competitor that can meet their desired delivery time frame. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. 31 the decision by british voters to exit the e.u. may negatively impact our operations. in june 2016, a majority of voters in the u.k. elected to withdraw from the e.u. (often referred to as brexit) in a national referendum. on october 17, 2019, u.k. prime minister boris johnson and the e.u. agreed to new terms for the country's exit from the e.u., which must be approved by the british parliament. as of the date of this filing, the british parliament has not agreed upon the terms of the withdrawal, which was extended until january 31, 2020. the referendum and ongoing negotiations have created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the u.k. and the e.u. if the u.k. leaves the e.u. with no agreement, it will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade and will create further short-term currency volatility. in the absence of a future trade deal, the u.k.'s trade with the european union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the world trade organization, which could result in higher importation costs for our products. in addition, the movement of goods between the u.k. and the remaining member states of the e.u. will be subject to additional inspections and documentation checks, leading to possible delays at ports of entry and departure. moreover, currency volatility could drive a weaker british pound, which could result in a decrease in the profitability of our u.k. operations. any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of brexit could result in significant expense and take significant time to complete. while we have not experienced any material financial impact from brexit on our u.k. business to date, sales into the u.k. represented approximately 3% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2019, and we cannot predict its future implications. any impact from brexit on our business and operations over the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations the u.k. conducts. we work in international locations with high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs. we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. some of our services are performed in high-risk locations or adjacent locations where the country or surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues, war or civil unrest, or is experiencing a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. despite the precautions that we take, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm our future financial results. our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately delivers radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. in addition, if the integrity of a catheter used as part of our cryoablation system is compromised, serious injury or death may occur. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third-party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data or personal information, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a product liability action were determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including punitive damages, and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. 32 adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation that could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture was defective or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time, cause us to lose new orders, cause customers to cancel or delay installation of existing orders, or cause us to incur significant costs, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we maintain limited product liability and healthcare professional liability insurance coverage and do not maintain errors and omissions insurance. our product liability and healthcare professional liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us, we may have to pay substantial damages if they are not covered by insurance. we are subject to certain risks related to the separation of our former imaging components business into varex imaging corporation. on january 28, 2017, we completed the separation of our former imaging components business through the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of varex imaging corporation ( varex ) to our stockholders. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the separation will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to both varian and its stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the united states internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the internal revenue service (the irs ) or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. additional risks relating to our software products we may face delays in the installation of our software products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we may face delays in the installation and acceptance of our software products, which may take more time from order to completion of installation and acceptance than our hardware products. though several of our software products are cloud-enabled, many of our current software product offerings are designed as on-premise products which must be installed on customer systems on-site. delays in installation of our software products may arise as a result of a variety of factors, including (i) longer installation timetables resulting from challenges in coordinating on-site visits with the customer personnel, (ii) customer it systems not being ready to host the installation, or (iii) the planning and customization required to deploy our software products in order to be compatible with a customer's unique, complex and/or dated health it systems. delays in installation of our software products could result in delays in our ability to recognize revenues from the sale of these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers could adversely affect our ability to release upgraded or new products. because there is no uniform practice among our customer base of updating to more recent versions of our software products and, for a variety of reasons, many of our customers do not regularly update to the newest version of our software products, at any point in time our installed base of customers may be running several different versions of our software products. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers can be cumbersome, time consuming and may require more personnel and other resources than would be the case if all of our customers utilized the same versions of our software products. moreover, the fact that not all of our customers run the same version of our software products can complicate our ability to efficiently release upgrades to, or new versions of, our software products across our installed base. similar complications to the release and installation of upgrades may be experienced with certain of our cloud-enabled products that have been developed using single tenant architecture, such as our 360 oncology product. in addition, in many instances, unless a customer has a certain version of our software products installed, their system will not be compatible with certain of our other software or hardware products. our inability to release new versions of software to customers or to sell customers other products because of incompatibility issues hurts our revenues and may make revenue projection less predictable. 33 coding errors in our software and cloud offerings could adversely affect our results of operations. despite extensive testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our software and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released software or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our software or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected, and revenues could decline. we may not be successful in transitioning our customer base to software solutions deployed via cloud and saas solutions. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and saas solutions. cloud and saas solutions for use in the health care industry must comply with stringent regulations in many of the countries in which our customers are located, particularly in relation to the use and storage of patient health data and privacy, and the regulations vary on a country-by-country basis. our software products must be compliant with applicable regulation in the country in question before we can operationalize our offerings for customers located in those countries. ensuring the compliance of our cloud and saas solutions with applicable regulation may take longer than expected, occur more slowly in certain countries than in others, require that design changes be developed into our products, or require more financial resources than anticipated. in addition, even where our cloud and saas solutions are compliant with applicable regulation, customers may nevertheless refuse to adopt our products for numerous reasons, particularly in regards to the security of patient health data. moreover, unless and until our cloud and saas solutions find general acceptance among our customer base, we would likely need to maintain and continue to develop both our on-premise software product offerings and our cloud and saas solution platforms, which could prevent us from realizing the full benefits and efficiencies from transitioning to a cloud platform, result in higher costs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. an increase in the prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors could also unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise software offerings and have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise software product and related service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, to the extent that demand for our cloud offerings increases in the future, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our software licenses and our cloud offering arrangements. furthermore, our cloud and saas software products may reside upon and be hosted by third party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services, could disrupt treatments utilizing our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our saas solutions over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in our saas business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we recognize saas related revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements. as a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter relating to our saas products is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results for that quarter. any such decline, however, could negatively impact our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our saas solutions, and potential changes in our attrition rate, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. certain software that we use in our products is licensed from third parties and, for that reason, may not be available to us in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production or cause us to incur additional expenses. some of our software products contain software licensed from third parties. some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our products to remain competitive. the loss of these third-party licenses or the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of future products or the enhancement of existing products. we may also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the gross margin of our software sales. 34 additional risks relating to our proton solutions business we participate in project financing for our proton solutions business, which has resulted in impairment charges and could result in payment defaults that adversely affect our financial results. we have participated along with others in providing financing for the construction and start-up operations of several proton therapy centers and may provide financing to other proton therapy customers in the future. as of september 27, 2019 , we had $165.2 million of loans outstanding, including accrued interest, available-for-sale securities, notes receivable and short-term senior secured debt related to proton solutions customers. see management discussion and analysis - overview - proton solutions and note 15, "proton solutions loans and investment," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the carrying value of our outstanding loans relating to the establishment of proton therapy centers. providing such financing has adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our financial results, since a center may not be completed on time or within budget, or may not generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or facilitate a refinancing. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off loan amounts owing to us, and if we cannot recover loan amounts owing to us from the sale of any collateral or through other means, or in the event of a bankruptcy of the borrower, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion, of the loans, which would adversely affect our financial results. for example, in fiscal year 2017, the california proton therapy center, llc ( cptc ), to which we had project financing outstanding, filed for bankruptcy and we recorded $51.4 million in impairment charges related to that financing. we also recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts of $37.8 million related to cptc and one other proton center in fiscal year 2017. similarly, in fiscal year 2018, we recorded impairment charges of $22.1 million on our subordinated loans to the maryland proton therapy center ( mptc ). please refer to management discussion and analysis - overview - varian proton solutions and note 15, "proton solutions loans and investment," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the impairment of the loan we extended. any impairment charges relating to our proton solutions business could have a material adverse impact our operating results and financial position. the financial results of our proton solutions business may be unpredictable and if our proton customers are unsuccessful, our financial results will be adversely affected. the success of our proton solutions business will depend upon the widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. this technology is expensive and has not been widely adopted. future developments may not be adopted as quickly as technological developments in more traditional areas of radiation therapy. since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more resources. many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of proton solutions that may make it difficult to predict our results and compare our results from period to period. the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. economic downturns that result in a contraction in credit markets, have made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could adversely impact our operating results. proton therapy is expensive and changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates can affect growth or demand for our proton solutions products and services. after a proton therapy facility is established, there can be no assurance that it will have sufficient patient volume to be successful or profitable. if a proton treatment center cannot generate sufficient patient volume, it may lead to a need to refinance or renegotiate debt, seek concession on payments, or ultimately insolvency and bankruptcy, as in the case of cptc and the rinecker proton therapy center in germany, which has and may in the future require us to impair loans if we have extended loans to the proton treatment center, or to record an allowance for doubtful accounts against accounts receivables due from the proton treatment center. our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the future results of proton solutions' business. if we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. it is possible that proton solutions could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, 35 including future market conditions, market acceptance of proton therapy and reimbursement rates. these factors could adversely impact proton solutions' ability to meet its projected results. for example, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we recorded a goodwill charge of $50.5 million for the full value of the proton solutions reporting unit goodwill, which resulted from a downward revision of forecasted future cash flows attributable to continued weakness in proton therapy markets and lower than expected results as compared to prior forecasts. we compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. if we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, we may lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be large and complex, and the sales cycle for proton therapy projects may take several years, an order in one fiscal period may cause our gross orders and revenues to vary significantly, making it difficult to predict and compare our results of operations from period to period. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of proton solutions' business for the foreseeable future. in instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which in turn could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. our proton solutions business may subject us to increased liability. our proton solutions' business may subject us to increased liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since the cost of a proton therapy center project can often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. additional risks related to our cancer treatment services international business in june 2019, we acquired ctsi, which through its america oncology institute ( aoi ) business operates nine multi-disciplinary cancer centers and one specialty hospital in india, and one multi-disciplinary cancer center in sri lanka, as of september 27, 2019 (collectively, cancer centers ). ctsi also operates ampath, a full-service reference laboratory and pathology provider in india. our aoi and ampath businesses subject us to a number of risks, including those set forth below. our cancer center operations may not be profitable, and the operation or development of existing and future cancer centers could cause us to incur unexpected costs. the operation and development of cancer centers is subject to a number of risks, including the inability to obtain regulatory permits or approval, delays in the construction of facilities and environmental liabilities related to the disposal of radioactive, chemical and medical waste. our strategy includes the development of additional multidisciplinary cancer centers, and we have several cancer centers under construction and several others in various planning stages. any failure or delay in successfully building new cancer centers, as well as liabilities from ongoing operations, could seriously harm our operating results. new cancer centers may incur significant operating losses during their initial operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in some cases our cancer centers may not be profitable enough for us to recover our investment. we may decide to close or sell cancer centers, either because of underperformance or other market developments. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians, qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. typically, physicians are responsible for making admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment at the cancer centers that we operate. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our cancer centers may depend, in part, on 36 the number and quality of the physicians and the medical staffs of our cancer centers, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. in many cases, physicians are not employees of our cancer centers, and, in a number of the regions in which we operate, physicians have admitting privileges at other cancer centers or hospitals in addition to our cancer centers. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from treating patients at our facilities and our results of operations may decline. in addition, we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management, nurses and other medical personnel. there is a nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel in india which from time to time may require us to enhance wages and benefits in order to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. to the extent we cannot hire adequate numbers of medical support personnel, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our results of operation. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. our cancer centers face competition for patients from other cancer centers, hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry in india is highly competitive and competition among cancer centers, hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other cancer centers or hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our facilities. we also face competition from specialty hospitals (some of which are physician-owned) and unaffiliated freestanding outpatient centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. in recent years, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. furthermore, some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by government agencies or not-for-profit organizations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than we are, we may experience an overall decline in patient volumes. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. our ctsi operations in india are subject to a wide variety of indian national and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our cancer centers and third-party customers of our ampath business. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions against our cancer centers and third-party customers of our ampath business in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. we maintain limited healthcare professional liability insurance coverage and do not maintain errors and omissions insurance. our insurance coverage may be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us, we may have to pay substantial damages if they are not covered by insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 37 risks relating to the manufacture of our products any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict the manufacture of products, cause delays in delivery, or significantly increase our costs. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose rate brachytherapy, klystrons for linear accelerators and specialized integrated circuits and various other components; radiofrequency components, magnets, patient positioning systems and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems, and vacuum sleeves for our cryoablation products. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited-sourced or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. in addition, following the separation of our former imaging components business into varex in january 2017, varex is the sole source supplier of tubes, panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our on-board imager. any disruption or reduction in the supply of these components could result in delays or reductions in our product deliveries, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. also, any unforecasted increases in the price of these components could adversely impact our profitability. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods. we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for oncology systems and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for proton solutions. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial results may suffer if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products. many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. we rely on third parties to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. disruptions at our logistics providers may adversely impact our business. 38 third-party logistics providers store a significant portion of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and perform a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. if any of our logistics providers terminates its relationship with us, suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or if we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our spare parts, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. risks relating to our regulatory environment we operate in a highly regulated industry, and we face significant costs in complying with laws and regulations. failure or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or complying with laws and regulations could delay or prevent product distribution, the introduction of new products or services and result in significant fines and penalties. we operate in a highly regulated industry and our products and services are subject to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, as discussed in part 1, item 1. business - government regulation . our products, services and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california and other u.s. states, the nuclear regulatory commission ("nrc ) and regulatory bodies in the countries and regions in which we market our products and services. for example, we must comply with fda medical device clearance and reporting regulations, and similar laws in numerous foreign countries, including the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada; and we must comply with nrc clearance, approval and licensing requirements and other federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use of radioactive materials. we are also subject to laws and regulations in india and sri lanka in relation to the operation of healthcare establishments. compliance with these regulations can be costly, time consuming and burdensome, may negatively impact our ability to market our products and services or result in significant delays or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services. moreover, failure to obtain regulatory approvals or renewals in a timely manner could subject us to fines and penalties. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency, false claims and misleading advertisements. these laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business or the businesses of our customers. non-compliance with anti-kickback , false claims and transparency laws and regulations can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of personal data, including under the eu general data protection regulation ("gdpr") and data protection legislation in other foreign jurisdictions and the california consumer privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ) and similar laws in the united states, at both the federal and state level. the compliance and other burdens imposed by the gdpr, ccpa and similar privacy laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, require us to modify our data handling practices, slow the pace at which we close sales transactions and impose additional costs and burdens. in particular, the collection, storage, transfer and use of patient information and data obtained through our aoi business operations is highly regulated by applicable law. in addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and/or significant fines, could negatively impact our reputation, and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities that require clinical trials, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the united states or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, monitoring, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject us to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. in addition, without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure you that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. any failure or delay in complying with one or more of the regulatory requirements we face could result in reduced sales, increased costs, delays to new product introductions, enhancements or our strategic plans, or harm to our reputation or competitiveness, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the affordable care act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices. 39 the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the aca ) became effective in 2010. the aca could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the aca is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems and proton solutions products, which took effect on january 1, 2013. in january 2018, president trump signed into law a spending package that included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax starting january 1, 2018 and ending december 31, 2019. this tax has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin when the moratorium expires. in addition, discussions relating to the aca have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and acos. acos and bundled payment programs were established by the aca to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. acos and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. however, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and bundled reimbursement payments. these and other elements of the aca, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and medical procedure volumes. we believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy in the united states could be adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the aca and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and could result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenues from quarter-to-quarter. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals, uncertainty related to implementation of aca provisions, and instability within insurance markets created under the aca, will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government's role in the united states healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. in addition, it is possible that changes in administration and policy, including the potential repeal of all or parts of the aca could result in additional proposals and/or changes to health care system legislation which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the full effect that a full or partial repeal of the aca would have on our business remains unclear at this time. more recently, president trump has signed an executive order and made statements that suggest he plans to seek repeal of all or portions of the aca, and has asked congress to replace the current legislation with new legislation. there is uncertainty with respect to the impact president trump's administration may have, if any, and any changes likely will take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the aca. however, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us. changes to radiation oncology, reimbursements, and insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and stock price. sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to inhibit individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs were lower. third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers at a level that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare makes a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms") to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts may extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts 40 for that treatment. we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates and coverage for modalities and indications for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement and coverage of procedures for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. in addition, in july 2019, cms announced a proposed alternative payment model (or apm ) pilot program for radiation oncology intended to test whether an episode-based payment structure across a cohort of u.s. hospitals and freestanding cancer centers would reduce medicare expenditures, while preserving or enhancing the quality of care. we expect that cms will announce the apm rules in late 2019, although the exact timing and details of the apm are uncertain. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, as a result of apm or otherwise, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders, make it more difficult for us to collect payments on outstanding accounts receivable or indebtedness from our proton therapy center customers or debtors, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and stock price. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. any violation of federal, state or foreign laws governing our business practices may result in substantial penalties. investigation into our business practices could cause adverse publicity and harm our business. anti-corruption laws and regulations. we are subject to the united states foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, and the law on the fundamentals of health protection in the russian federation. any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international's 2016 corruption perceptions index found that approximately sixty-nine percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. moreover, our recent acquisitions of ctsi and alicon have significantly increased our operations in india and china, respectively. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies. any such investigation or proceeding results in costs and management distraction, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. an adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. competition laws. we are subject to competition laws in the regions where we do business. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. in addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can result in liability. we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, 41 like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires substance information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain access to certain markets. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our intellectual property protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, which would harm our business. we file applications for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot assure you that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or the patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts resources. an unfavorable outcome in such litigation or proceedings could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. our efforts to protect our intellectual property do not prevent competitors from independently developing similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or from designing around our proprietary technologies, which could harm us. in addition, the regulations of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases, products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products. there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of the intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties asserting infringement and we are subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant 42 damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. risks relating to our common stock fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, margins, and cash flows may cause our stock price to be volatile, resulting in losses for our stockholders. we have experienced and expect to experience periodic fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues, margins and cash flows. drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. the timing of order placement, equipment installation and revenue recognition affect our quarterly results. once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the backlog amounts) and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due (e.g. an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed), cancellations or rescheduling by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, many of which are out of our control, including, among other things: changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels; imposition of tariffs on our products or components and services used in our products; negative publicity about our products and services; impairment of loans, notes receivables, accounts receivable; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; 43 changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by different geographic regions; fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which presently carry lower gross margins than do our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would likely decline. we report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the quarterly review or annual audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. order cancellation or delays in delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods. in addition, our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. 68 credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our financing receivables and our loans to proton solutions customers. as of september 27, 2019 , we had a total of $49.3 million in loans outstanding to cptc and $115.9 million carrying value of notes receivable including accrued interest to proton solutions customers, available-for-sale securities, and senior secured debt. see note 15, "proton solutions loans and investment," of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the last economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer's country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency sale transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries' functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to fifteen months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currency or the u.s. dollar. however, our foreign exchange forward contract gains or losses may impact our effective tax rate. the notional values of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of september 27, 2019 were $518.2 million and $52.3 million , respectively. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. our investment portfolio primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities as of september 27, 2019 . the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents in continuing operations at september 27, 2019 totaled $531.4 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.81%. 69 our available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. at september 27, 2019 , our available-for-sale securities, which include accrued interest are as follows: ($ in millions) fair value interest rate mptc series b-1 bonds $ 27.1 7.5 % mptc series b-2 bonds 25.1 8.5 % aptc securities 6.6 8.5 % we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our revolving credit facility. at september 27, 2019 , borrowings under the revolving credit facility totaled $410.0 million with a weighted average interest rate of 3.05% . if the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $4.1 million. see a detailed discussion of our credit facilities in md&amp;a - liquidity and capital resources. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. in addition, although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 70risk factors 23 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the occurrence of any of the following risks or of unknown risks and uncertainties may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. risk factor summary the merger is subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions in the merger agreement. failure to complete the merger could materially adversely affect our business operations, financial results and stock price. we will be subject to various uncertainties while the merger is pending that may cause disruption and may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and distributors. 23 we are subject to certain restrictions in the merger agreement that may hinder operations pending the consummation of the merger. if the merger agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay a termination fee to siemens healthineers. our business and results of operations have been adversely affected, and our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition may in the future be materially adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic and any associated economic disruptions. our performance depends on successful improvements to our existing products and services, commercialization of new products and services and increasingly on our ability to anticipate emerging trends in oncology diagnosis, treatment and management. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or more effective technologies, or be forced to reduce our prices. the interoperability of radiation oncology treatment products is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to establish interoperability. disruption of our critical information systems or material cyberattacks or security breaches of our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations. we may offer extended payment terms to certain customers, which could adversely affect our financial results. economic, political, foreign currency, security and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or operations. tariffs or cross-border trade restrictions could increase the cost of our products. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products. our business will suffer if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products or technologies and our efforts to integrate acquired businesses may not be successful. acquiring or implementing new business lines or offering new products and services may subject us to additional risks. losing distributors may harm our revenues in some territories. the results of studies and clinical trials are highly uncertain. our credit facility restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial position. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls. we are subject to certain risks related to the separation of our former imaging components business into varex imaging corporation. we may face delays in the installation of our software products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers could adversely affect our ability to release upgraded or new products. coding errors in our software and cloud offerings could adversely affect our results of operations. 24 we may not be successful in transitioning our customer base to software solutions deployed via cloud and software-as-a-service ("saas") solutions. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our saas solutions over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in our saas business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. certain software that we use in our products is licensed from third parties and, for that reason, may not be available to us in the future. we participate in project financing for our proton solutions business, which has resulted in impairment charges and could result in payment defaults that adversely affect our financial results. our proton solutions business has not been profitable historically, its financial results may be unpredictable and if our proton customers are unsuccessful, our financial results will be adversely affected. our proton solutions business may subject us to increased liability. our cancer center operations may not be profitable, and the operation or development of existing and future cancer centers could cause us to incur unexpected costs. the performance of the cancer centers that we operate depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians, qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing. our cancer centers face competition for patients from other cancer centers, hospitals and health care providers. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our cancer centers and third-party customers of our ampath business. any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict the manufacture of products, cause delays in delivery, or significantly increase our costs. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods. our financial results may suffer if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products. disruptions at our logistics providers may adversely impact our business. failure or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or complying with laws and regulations could delay or prevent product distribution, the introduction of new products or services and result in significant fines and penalties. healthcare reform legislation, including the affordable care act and state-level legislation, may adversely affect our business. changes to radiation oncology, reimbursements, and insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products. any violation of federal, state or foreign laws governing our business practices may result in substantial penalties. investigation into our business practices could cause adverse publicity and harm our business. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can result in liability. protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, margins, and cash flows may cause our stock price to be volatile, resulting in losses for our stockholders. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial results. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel. 25 changes in the interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results. risks relating to proposed acquisition by siemens healthineers the merger is subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions in the merger agreement. the merger agreement contains a number of customary conditions to complete the merger, including, (i) the adoption of the merger agreement by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of vms common stock entitled to vote, which was received on october 15, 2020, (ii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, which expired october 22, 2020 at 11:59 p.m. eastern time, (iii) the r eceipt of specified regulatory approvals, (iv) the receipt of the approval of the committee on foreign investment in the united states , (v) the absence of a ny newly enacted law, injunction or order prohibiting the merger , (vi) the accuracy of the representations and warranties contained in the merger agreement (generally subject to a material adverse effect qualification) , (vii) c ompliance in all material respects with the covenants and agreements in the merger agreement and (viii) absence of a company material adverse effect (as defined in the merger agreement) on the company since the date of the merger agreement that is continuing . we can provide no assurance that all required approvals will be obtained or that all closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, we can provide no assurance as to the terms, conditions and timing of such approvals or the timing of the completion of the merger. any delay in completing the merger could cause us not to realize some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve if the merger is successfully completed within its expected timeframe. failure to complete the merger could materially adversely affect our business operations, financial results and stock price. if the merger is not completed, our stockholders will not receive any payment for their shares in connection with the merger. instead, vms will remain an independent public company, and the shares will continue to be traded on the new york stock exchange. our ongoing business may be materially adversely affected, and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price, and it is uncertain when, if ever, the price of the shares would return to the prices at which the shares currently trade; we may experience negative publicity, which could have an adverse effect on our ongoing operations including, but not limited to, retaining and attracting employees, customers, suppliers and distributors; we will still be required to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor, printing and other professional services fees, which may relate to activities that we would not have undertaken other than to complete the merger; we may be required to pay a cash termination fee as required under the merger agreement; the merger agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, which may have delayed or prevented us from undertaking business opportunities that, absent the merger agreement, we may have pursued; matters relating to the merger require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could result in the distraction of management from ongoing business operations and refraining from pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; and we have and may continue to incur additional costs in connection with the defense or settlement of any stockholder litigation in connection with the merger, which may adversely affect our ability to complete the merger. if the merger is not consummated, the risks described above may materialize and they may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial results and stock price, especially to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed. we will be subject to various uncertainties while the merger is pending that may cause disruption and may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and distributors. uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, customers, suppliers and distributors may have an adverse effect on us. these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed, and 26 could cause customers, suppliers, distributors and others that deal with us to attempt to change existing business relationships with us. retention and motivation of certain employees may be challenging while the merger is pending, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. if key employees depart, our business could be harmed. in addition, there could be distractions to or disruptions for our employees and management associated with obtaining the required approvals to close the merger. our customers, suppliers and distributors may experience uncertainty with the merger, including with respect to current or future business relationships following the merger. our business relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, suppliers, distributors and others may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than with us. these disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. the risks, and adverse effects, of such disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. we are subject to certain restrictions in the merger agreement that may hinder operations pending the consummation of the merger. whether or not the merger is completed, the pending merger may disrupt our current plans and operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. the merger agreement generally requires us to use commercially reasonable efforts to operate our business in all material respects in the ordinary course pending completion of the merger and not to engage in specified types of actions during this period, in each case subject to certain exceptions . these restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if the consummation of the merger is delayed, which may delay or prevent us from undertaking business opportunities that, absent the merger agreement, we might have pursued, or effectively respond to competitive pressures or industry developments. for these and other reasons, the pendency of the merger could adversely affect our business operations and financial results. if the merger agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay a termination fee to siemens healthineers. these costs could require us to use cash that would have otherwise been available for other uses. if the merger is not completed, in certain circumstances, we could be required to pay a termination fee of $450 million to siemens healthineers. if the merger agreement is terminated, the termination fee we may be required to pay, if any, under the merger agreement may require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes or other uses. the payment of a termination fee may also have an adverse impact on our financial condition and could affect the structure, pricing and terms proposed by a third party seeking to acquire or merge with us or deter such third party from making a competing acquisition proposal. further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. for these and other reasons, termination of the merger agreement could materially adversely affect our business operations and financial results, which in turn would materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. risks relating to covid-19 our business and results of operations have been adversely affected, and our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition may in the future be materially adversely affected by the covid-19 pandemic and any associated economic disruptions. we are subject to risks associated with public health threats and epidemics, including the global covid-19 pandemic. the covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted nearly all aspects of our business and markets globally, including our workforce and operations and the operations of our customers, suppliers, distributors and business partners, and has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption to healthcare activity globally. while we are unable to predict the extent to which the covid-19 pandemic may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, we may experience a broad range of operational and financial impacts, including: increased fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, margins, and cash flows and resulting volatility in our stock price; significant volatility or reductions in demand for our products or services, or delays in the timing of orders; impacts to the normal operations of our customers which may impact our ability to market, sell, deliver, install and service our products and systems, and increase customer payment, credit and insolvency risk; 27 limitations on our business operations resulting from shelter-in-place orders and other travel restrictions implemented to contain the pandemic and the timing of relaxation of such containment measures across geographies; increased risks related to the health and safety of our employees and associated employment-related disputes and retention issues; disruptions to our manufacturing operations and distribution and supply chains; distraction of management time and attention; potential disproportionate adverse impacts, including political, social and economic impacts, in the emerging markets in which we operate, which could increase security risks for our personnel and harm our business and operating results in such markets; increased volatility of foreign currency exchange rates, which may impact demand for our products and services; increased risk of cybersecurity attacks and security breaches by bad actors seeking to exploit the crisis; delays to acquisition plans, increased risks to the operations and financial condition of newly acquired businesses, and increased costs or delays to integration of newly acquired businesses; the impact of any reprioritization of capital allocations on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives over the medium and long-term; write downs or impairments to our loans to proton centers, investments in third parties, goodwill or intangible assets from recently acquired businesses, accounts receivable, or other assets; potential liquidity constraints and credit impacts; delays in obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market our products or delays to clinical trial activity; local or global recessions caused by the covid-19 pandemic, which may result in hospitals reducing or curtailing capital or overall spending. in addition, a lack of coordinated covid-19 response by the u.s. government could result in significant increases to the duration and severity of the pandemic in the united states and could have a corresponding negative impact on our business. the extent to which the covid-19 global pandemic and measures taken in response to it will impact our business, results of operations and cash flows and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict; these developments include, but are not limited to, the duration and spread of the pandemic, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or address its impact, u.s. and foreign government actions to respond to the reduction in global economic activity, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. we refer you to management's discussion and analysis of financial position and results of operations for a more detailed discussion of the potential impact of the covid-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions, and the actual operational and financial impacts that we have experienced to date. risks relating to our businesses our performance depends on successful improvements to our existing products and services, commercialization of new products and services and increasingly on our ability to anticipate emerging trends in oncology diagnosis, treatment and management. the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. our performance depends on the successful commercialization of new products and services that reflect and respond to changes in the marketplace, technology and customer demands and increasingly on our ability to anticipate emerging trends in oncology diagnosis, treatment and management. our oncology systems hardware and software products often have long development and government approval cycles, are technologically complex and must demonstrate high levels of performance and functionality to remain competitive. 28 our software products compete in markets characterized by rapid technological advances, changing delivery models, evolving standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and saas solutions. the development and introduction of new software platforms and delivery models, as well as different business models, is complex and involves many technological, regulatory and legal hurdles. we cannot assure you that we can successfully develop and implement such platforms or models or that our customers will accept them. our proton solutions products require intensive planning, design, development, testing and capital commitment. because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems, there is increasing demand for the development of smaller, more compact proton therapy systems. although we have introduced our probeam compact single-room proton therapy solution and our probeam 360 single room and multi-room systems, other companies have more experience offering smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems. our competitiveness will depend on our ability to continue to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. our interventional solutions business offers products for interventional oncology procedures and treatments, including cryoablation, microwave ablation and embolization the success of our interventional oncology business will depend on general market penetration and acceptance of interventional solutions among physicians, the medical community, healthcare payors and patients, and our ability to develop and successfully market technologically competitive products and win market share from other companies in spaces where they have greater resources than we do. in addition to hardware and software products for oncology care, we offer treatment planning and quality assurance as a service, which allows remote delivery and support of care in understaffed locations to utilize technology on a per patient basis. our ability to realize the full potential of these services will depend heavily on our ability to deploy them using ai-based software solutions and developing such software solutions. we may need to spend more time and money than anticipated to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements or services. we may not be able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investments. new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products or make them less desirable or even obsolete. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be disproportionately greater than the costs associated with existing products, and if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, product enhancements and services depends, among other things, on our ability to: properly identify and respond to customer needs; demonstrate the value proposition of new products and services; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns or shortages caused by phase-in of new products and services and phase-out of old products and services; price our products and services competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; and manage customer demands for new and old products and services, and optimize complementary product lines and services. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully commercialize new products because commercialization involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the fda. failure to complete these processes on a timely and efficient basis could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders. 29 in addition, a portion of our oncology systems' product revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, and our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred where it takes longer to manufacture or install the new products. customers may also decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or more effective technologies, or be forced to reduce our prices. the markets for cancer treatment are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab and accuray incorporated. in addition, our software products compete with the product offerings of a variety of companies, such as philips medical systems, raysearch laboratories ab and brainlab ag. new competitors may enter our markets and have already entered some of our newer markets such as radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. established enterprise software developers with greater software development capability may enter the markets for cancer treatment software. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical capabilities, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. new competitors may also delay the purchasing decisions of customers if customers decide to evaluate the products of such competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders and revenues. the shift in the proportion of sales outside the united states towards emerging market countries, which typically purchase less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition and longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our primary competitors in the proton therapy market are hitachi heavy industries, ion beam applications s.a. and mevion medical systems. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, and develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver precise, cost-effective, high quality capabilities. the markets for interventional solutions products are relatively new, still developing and consist of a wide variety of products, many of which have had varying degrees of market acceptance. our primary competitors in the interventional solutions market include boston scientific corp., terumo medical corp., merit medical systems, angiodynamics, medtronic and johnson &amp; johnson, many of which have greater experience in the interventional solutions markets and more financial and other resources than we do. the successful development of alternative therapies for cancer (e.g. pharmaceutical treatments such as immunotherapy), increased efficacy information about new therapies or existing products, pricing decisions by competitors and the rate of market penetration by competitive products may render our products obsolete, result in lost market share for us, reduce utilization of our products, lower prices, and reduce product sales and operating margins. the timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength and resources, which could enable them to compete more aggressively and effectively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. the interoperability of radiation oncology treatment products is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to establish interoperability. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focused on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (1) increasing the interconnectivity of our 30 products for more seamless operation within a system, (2) making our software products easier to use, and (3) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated, and a high level of training and education is required to use them safely and effectively. we have emphasized an open system approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and offer various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and vmat and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open system approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with other products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes or delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive to our customers. disruption of our critical information systems or material cyberattacks or security breaches of our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. there is an increasing threat of information security attacks for companies such as varian. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. if our data management systems fail to effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. we manufacture and sell (i) hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and (ii) software products that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information. both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. while we have implemented security measures to protect our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and saas software products which reside with and are hosted by third-party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services, could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 31 if we were to experience a significant cyberattack or security breach of our information systems or data, the costs associated with the investigation, remediation and potential notification of the breach to customers and counter-parties could be material. we carry a limited amount of insurance for cybersecurity liability, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate. in the future, our insurance coverage may be expensive and/or not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. we may offer extended payment terms to certain customers, which could adversely affect our financial results. we offer extended payment terms for certain qualified customers. as of october 2, 2020, customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately 6% of our net trade and unbilled receivables. while we qualify customers to whom we offer extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer payment term. many of the customers to which we offer such extended payment terms are located in underdeveloped legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. concerns over economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, extended payment terms decrease our cash flow from operations. in addition to extended payment terms, in some cases the purchase price for our hardware products is also variable based on the number of patients treated with the product, which may make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue. economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable. revenues outside of the united states accounted for approximately 56%, 57%, and 55% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. correspondingly, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so. we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover these investments in international markets. our results of operation could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, among other things: lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products and services in international regions, and in emerging markets in particular; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the typically longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in certain international and emerging markets; currency fluctuations; difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through the legal systems of many foreign countries; unstable regional political and economic conditions, or strained or worsening relations between the united states and china or other countries; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region, including as a result of the united kingdom's (the u.k. ) exit from the european union ( e.u. ) ( brexit ); the imposition by governments, including the united states, of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs or other restrictions on foreign trade, and our ability to obtain or renew exemptions from tariffs; any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals; any inability to comply with export or import laws and requirements or any violation of sanctions regulations, which may result in enforcement actions, civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on exportation; any increase in the cost of trade compliance functions to comply with changes to regulatory requirements; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements to conduct business in a foreign jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. 32 tariffs or cross-border trade restrictions could increase the cost of our products. on july 6, 2018, the trump administration imposed 25% tariffs on a variety of imports from china, including varian's radiotherapy systems manufactured in china and certain components imported into the u.s. for our manufacturing and service activities. the administration subsequently imposed tariffs on two additional lists of products from china; the first of these additional lists involves 25% tariffs and the second list imposes 25% tariffs. we expect our imports into the u.s. will continue to be impacted less by these two additional tariff lists than by the initial tariff list. china responded to the multiple u.s. tariff lists by announcing several lists of products from the u.s. that are subject to additional tariffs upon import to china. the first round of chinese retaliatory tariffs went into effect on july 6, 2018. our products are not impacted by these tariffs. our exports of u.s. manufactured radiotherapy systems to china are impacted by the second chinese list, implemented on august 23, 2018, which is subject to a 25% tariff. a third group of items, including certain of our manufacturing inputs and services, is subject to 5 to 10% tariffs, which went into effect on september 24, 2018. in september 2019, the chinese government granted a tariff exclusion for medical linear accelerators, including our radiotherapy systems, which has been extended through september 16, 2021. any tariffs imposed by the united states and china that include varian technology could increase the cost of our products and adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and/or our operational results in the future. we continue to participate in the office of the u.s. trade representative ( ustr ) process to consider and extend product-specific exclusions from these tariffs. on december 21, 2018, ustr announced its approval of our request to exclude certain radiotherapy systems manufactured in china, and this decision has been extended through december 28, 2020. two additional component exclusions, for multi-leaf collimators and certain printed circuit board assemblies, have been granted through december 31, 2020. one additional exclusion request, for tungsten shielding, was not extended and expired on september 19, 2020. we continue to advocate for consideration of extensions beyond the current expiration dates, but there can be no assurance we will be successful. changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results. because our business is global, and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we sell in foreign markets. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast accuracy. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. furthermore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not in another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis, typically up to the next twelve-month period, instead of on a rollforward basis. therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over a longer term. long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. a substantial portion of our international sales are priced in local currencies, although our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. therefore, the strengthening of the u.s. dollar may adversely affect our competitiveness and financial results, as our foreign competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and they may be more competitive when the u.s. dollar strengthens against those currencies. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. furthermore, if one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products. we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. in addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. as customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase, as customers combine orders as one entity, or as groups of 33 organizations combine their purchases. if orders increase in size and require more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable and could result in longer overall order to revenue cycles. in addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an accountable care organization ( aco ) environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in pricing could negatively impact gross orders, future revenues and gross margins. our business will suffer if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products. in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to (i) educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, vmat, srs, sbrt, proton therapy or procedures using our interventional oncology products, (ii) overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, (iii) convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs, and (iv) help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources to marketing and educational efforts to (a) create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat radiotherapy, srs, sbrt, proton therapy or procedures using our interventional oncology products, (b) encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and (c) promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products or technologies, which could harm our business. we need to grow and evolve our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. from time to time we may decide to execute on our strategy of becoming the global leader in multi-disciplinary, integrated cancer care solutions through the acquisition of, or investments in, businesses, products or technologies, rather than through organic development. for example, we completed five acquisitions in fiscal year 2019. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, negotiating and completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and adversely affect our financial results. there can be no assurance that the businesses, products or technologies we acquire, or the businesses we invest in, will become profitable or remain so. it may cost us more than anticipated to commercialize acquired business product lines, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or require us to increase our research and development, sales and marketing or general and administrative expenses, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations. moreover, our failure to successfully manage the growth of an acquired businesses could have an adverse impact on the overall financial performance of our business. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: our ability to retain key employees of the acquired businesses; the performance of the acquired businesses and their technologies, products or services; our ability to integrate the operations, financial and other systems of the acquired businesses; the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies such as increasing sales of the combined company's products and services, achieving expected cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products and services; any disruption in order fulfillment or loss of sales due to integration processes; increases in our risk of litigation, as a third-party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim; the absence of adequate internal controls and/or the presence of fraud in the acquired businesses; 34 our ability to retain or grow the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners; any decrease in customer and distributor loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the product lines and sales and marketing practices of the acquired businesses, including price increases; and our assumption of known contingent liabilities, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or unknown liabilities that come to light, in each case to the extent that the realization of such liabilities increases our expenses or adversely affects our business or financial position. when we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and we record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth or cash flows from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, from time to time we structure our acquisitions to include earnout provisions that require us to pay the sellers of the businesses we acquire additional cash payments upon the accomplishment of financial performance or developmental milestones in the periods following the acquisition closing date. any changes to our estimate of the expected earnout payments after the close of the acquisition up to and including the final payment, would generally be reflected on our statement of earnings. moreover, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. additionally, we have investments in privately held companies. these investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize or achieve expectations. if these companies do not succeed, we may be forced to record impairment charges and could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. our efforts to integrate acquired businesses may not be successful, and this may adversely affect our financial results. the success of business acquisitions may depend on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business. integrating the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of operations, manufacturing, personnel, information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing and finance. these efforts can be compounded when the acquisitions are in new geographies or business lines. if these integration efforts are not successful, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully, may take longer to realize than expected, or may not be realized at all. our efforts to successfully integrate acquisitions may also result in additional expenses and divert significant amounts of management's time from other projects. acquiring or implementing new business lines or offering new products and services may subject us to additional risks. from time to time, we may acquire or implement new business lines or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. for example, with our june 2019 acquisition of cancer treatment international ( ctsi ), we entered the healthcare provider space and plan to expand into treatment planning and service, and with our july and august 2019 acquisitions of endocare and alicon we entered the interventional oncology market. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. we may invest significant time and resources in developing, marketing, or acquiring new lines of business and/or offering new products and services. initial timetables for the introduction and development or acquisition of new lines of business and/or the offering of new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may prove to be unachievable. our lack of experience or knowledge, as well as external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the success of an acquisition or the implementation or of a new line of business or a new product or service. entry into a new line of business and/or offering a new product or service may also subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar and may lead to increased litigation or regulatory risk. furthermore, any new business line and/or new product or service could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. new business lines or new products and services within existing lines of business could affect the sales and profitability of existing lines of business or products and services, including as a result of sales channel conflicts. other risks include: (i) potential diversion of management's attention, available cash, and other resources from our existing businesses; (ii) unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; (iii) the need for additional capital and other resources to expand into or acquire the new line of business; (iv) potential damage to existing customer relationships, lack of customer acceptance or inability to attract new customers; and (v) the inability to compete effectively. these risks would be magnified to the extent that any new business line would result in a significant increase in operations in developing markets. failure to successfully manage these risks in the implementation or acquisition of new lines of business or the offering of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. 35 losing distributors may harm our revenues in some territories. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales or the ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. the results of studies and clinical trials are highly uncertain. we have in the past conducted, and, in the future may continue to conduct, clinical trials related to prospective new therapies and technologies, including most recently pre-clinical studies in relation to ultra-high dose rate cancer treatments using our probeam platform. the results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of product candidates or new therapies and technologies may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials, and favorable data from interim analyses do not ensure that the final results of a trial will be favorable. product candidates or new therapies and technologies may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials, or despite having produced favorable data in connection with an interim analysis. a number of companies in our industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. in addition, even if such clinical trials are successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as we do, and more trials could be required before we submit our product candidates, new therapies or technologies for approval. to the extent that the results of trials are not satisfactory to the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application or desired reimbursement classification product codes, we may be required to expend significant resources, which may not be available to us, to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of our product candidates, new therapies or technologies. our credit facility restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial position. we maintain a credit facility that contains affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. we have in the past used borrowings under our credit facility to fund the repurchase of our shares, and we may continue to do so in the future. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control. we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. in addition, we have operations in parts of the world, including cancer centers in parts of india, which have experienced natural disasters such as tsunamis, floods and drought. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, drought, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace the damaged facilities. these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal or may move to a competitor that can meet their desired delivery time frame. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or a pandemic could have or in the case of the recent covid-19 pandemic, has had and could continue to have, a negative effect on our business operations, those of 36 our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. the united kingdom's exit from the european union may negatively impact our operations. the united kingdom's ("u.k") exit from the european union on january 31, 2020, commonly referred to as brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets. political and regulatory responses to the withdrawal are still developing, and we are in the process of assessing the impact that the withdrawal may have on our business as more information becomes available. while we have not experienced any material financial impact from brexit on our u.k. business to date, sales into the u.k. represented approximately 3% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2020, and we cannot predict the future implications of brexit. any impact from brexit on our business and operations over the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations the u.k. conducts. we work in international locations with high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs. we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. some of our services are performed in high-risk locations or adjacent locations where the country or surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues, war or civil unrest, or is experiencing a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. despite the precautions that we take, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm our future financial results. our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately delivers radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. in addition, if the integrity of a catheter used as part of our cryoablation system is compromised, serious injury or death may occur. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third-party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data or personal information, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a product liability action were determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including punitive damages, and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation that could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture was defective or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time, cause us to lose new orders, cause customers to cancel or delay installation of existing orders, or cause us to incur significant costs, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. 37 we maintain limited product liability and healthcare professional liability insurance coverage and do not maintain errors and omissions insurance. our product liability and healthcare professional liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us, we may have to pay substantial damages if they are not covered by insurance. we are subject to certain risks related to the separation of our former imaging components business into varex imaging corporation. on january 28, 2017, we completed the separation of our former imaging components business through the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of varex imaging corporation ( varex ) to our stockholders. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the separation will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to both varian and its stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the united states internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the internal revenue service (the irs ) or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. additional risks relating to our software products we may face delays in the installation of our software products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we may face delays in the installation and acceptance of our software products, which may take more time from order to completion of installation and acceptance than our hardware products. though some of our software products are cloud-enabled, many of our current software product offerings are designed as on-premise products which must be installed on customer systems on-site. delays in installation of our software products may arise as a result of a variety of factors, including (i) longer installation timetables resulting from challenges in coordinating on-site visits with the customer personnel, (ii) customer it systems not being ready to host the installation, or (iii) the planning and customization required to deploy our software products in order to be compatible with a customer's unique, complex and/or dated health it systems. delays in installation of our software products could result in delays in our ability to recognize revenues from the sale of these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers could adversely affect our ability to release upgraded or new products. because there is no uniform practice among our customer base of updating to more recent versions of our software products and, for a variety of reasons, many of our customers do not regularly update to the newest version of our software products, at any point in time our installed base of customers may be running several different versions of our software products. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers can be cumbersome, time consuming and may require more personnel and other resources than would be the case if all of our customers utilized the same versions of our software products. moreover, the fact that not all of our customers run the same version of our software products can complicate our ability to efficiently release upgrades to, or new versions of, our software products across our installed base. similar complications to the release and installation of upgrades may be experienced with certain of our cloud-enabled products that have been developed using single tenant architecture. in addition, in many instances, unless a customer has a certain version of our software products installed, their system will not be compatible with certain of our other software or hardware products. our inability to release new versions of software to customers or to sell customers other products because of incompatibility issues hurts our revenues and may make revenue projection less predictable. coding errors in our software and cloud offerings could adversely affect our results of operations. despite extensive testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our software and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released software or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our software or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected, and revenues could decline. 38 we may not be successful in transitioning our customer base to software solutions deployed via cloud and saas solutions. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and saas solutions. cloud and saas solutions for use in the health care industry must comply with stringent regulations in many of the countries in which our customers are located, particularly in relation to the use and storage of patient health data and privacy, and the regulations vary on a country-by-country basis. our software products must be compliant with applicable regulation in the country in question before we can operationalize our offerings for customers located in those countries. ensuring the compliance of our cloud and saas solutions with applicable regulation may take longer than expected, occur more slowly in certain countries than in others, require that design changes be developed into our products, or require more financial resources than anticipated. in addition, even where our cloud and saas solutions are compliant with applicable regulation, customers may nevertheless refuse to adopt our products for numerous reasons, particularly in regards to the security of patient health data. moreover, unless and until our cloud and saas solutions find general acceptance among our customer base, we would likely need to maintain and continue to develop both our on-premise software product offerings and our cloud and saas solution platforms, which could prevent us from realizing the full benefits and efficiencies from transitioning to a cloud platform, result in higher costs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. an increase in the prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors could also unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise software offerings and have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise software product and related service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, to the extent that demand for our cloud offerings increases in the future, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our software licenses and our cloud offering arrangements. furthermore, our cloud and saas software products may reside upon and be hosted by third party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services, could disrupt treatments utilizing our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our saas solutions over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in our saas business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we recognize saas related revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements. as a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter relating to our saas products is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results for that quarter. any such decline, however, could negatively impact our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our saas solutions, and potential changes in our attrition rate, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. certain software that we use in our products is licensed from third parties and, for that reason, may not be available to us in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production or cause us to incur additional expenses. some of our software products contain software licensed from third parties. some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our products to remain competitive. the loss of these third-party licenses or the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of future products or the enhancement of existing products. we may also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the gross margin of our software sales. additional risks relating to our proton solutions business we participate in project financing for our proton solutions business, which has resulted in impairment charges and could result in payment defaults that adversely affect our financial results. we have participated along with others in providing financing for the construction and start-up operations of several proton therapy centers and may provide financing to other proton therapy customers in the future. as of october 2, 2020, we had $118.6 million of loans outstanding, including accrued interest, available-for-sale securities, notes receivable and short-term senior secured debt, net of impairment reserves, related to proton solutions customers. see management discussion and analysis - overview - proton solutions and note 15, "proton solutions loans and investment," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the carrying value of our outstanding loans relating to the establishment of proton therapy centers. providing such financing has adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our financial results, since a center may not be completed on time or within budget, or may not generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to 39 support scheduled loan payments or facilitate a refinancing. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off loan amounts owing to us, and if we cannot recover loan amounts owing to us from the sale of any collateral or through other means, or in the event of a bankruptcy of the borrower, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion, of the loans, which would adversely affect our financial results. for example, in fiscal year 2017, the california proton therapy center, llc ( cptc ), to which we had project financing outstanding, filed for bankruptcy and we recorded $51.4 million in impairment charges related to that financing. we also recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts of $37.8 million related to cptc and one other proton center in fiscal year 2017. similarly, in fiscal year 2018, we recorded impairment charges of $22.1 million on our subordinated loans to the maryland proton therapy center ( mptc ) and in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 we recorded an impairment of loans receivable from cptc of $40.5 million. please refer to management discussion and analysis - overview - varian proton solutions and note 15, "proton solutions loans and investment," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the impairment of the loan we extended. any impairment charges relating to our proton solutions business could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. our proton solutions business has not been profitable historically, its financial results may be unpredictable and if our proton customers are unsuccessful, our financial results will be adversely affected. the success of our proton solutions business will depend upon the widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. this technology is expensive and has not been widely adopted. future developments may not be adopted as quickly as technological developments in more traditional areas of radiation therapy. since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more resources. many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of proton solutions that may make it difficult to predict our results and compare our results from period to period. the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. economic downturns that result in a contraction in credit markets, have made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could adversely impact our operating results. proton therapy is expensive and changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates can affect growth or demand for our proton solutions products and services. after a proton therapy facility is established, there can be no assurance that it will have sufficient patient volume to be successful or profitable. if a proton treatment center cannot generate sufficient patient volume, it may lead to a need to refinance or renegotiate debt, seek concession on payments, or ultimately insolvency and bankruptcy, as in the case of cptc and the rinecker proton therapy center in germany, which has and may in the future require us to impair loans if we have extended loans to the proton treatment center, or to record an allowance for doubtful accounts against accounts receivables due from the proton treatment center. our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the future results of proton solutions' business. if we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. it is possible that proton solutions could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, market acceptance of proton therapy and reimbursement rates. these factors could adversely impact proton solutions' ability to meet its projected results. for example, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we recorded a goodwill charge of $50.5 million for the full value of the proton solutions reporting unit goodwill, which resulted from a downward revision of forecasted future cash flows attributable to continued weakness in proton therapy markets and lower than expected results as compared to prior forecasts. we compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. if we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, we may lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be large and complex, and the sales cycle for proton therapy projects may take several years, an order in one fiscal period may cause our gross orders and revenues to vary significantly, making it difficult to predict and compare our results of operations from period to period. 40 we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of proton solutions' business for the foreseeable future. in instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which in turn could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. our proton solutions business may subject us to increased liability. our proton solutions' business may subject us to increased liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since the cost of a proton therapy center project can often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. additional risks related to our cancer treatment services international business in june 2019, we acquired ctsi, which through its america oncology institute ( aoi ) business operates thirteen multi-disciplinary cancer centers and one specialty hospital in india, and one multi-disciplinary cancer center in sri lanka, as of october 2, 2020 (collectively, cancer centers ). ctsi also operates ampath, a full-service reference laboratory and pathology provider in india. our aoi and ampath businesses subject us to a number of risks, including those set forth below. our cancer center operations may not be profitable, and the operation or development of existing and future cancer centers could cause us to incur unexpected costs. the operation and development of cancer centers is subject to a number of risks, including the inability to obtain regulatory permits or approval, delays in the construction of facilities and environmental liabilities related to the disposal of radioactive, chemical and medical waste. our strategy includes the development of additional multidisciplinary cancer centers, which are in various planning or development stages. any failure or delay in successfully building new cancer centers, as well as liabilities from ongoing operations, could seriously harm our operating results. new cancer centers may incur significant operating losses during their initial operations, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in some cases our cancer centers may not be profitable enough for us to recover our investment. we may decide to close or sell cancer centers, either because of underperformance or other market developments. the performance of the cancer centers that we operate depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians, qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. typically, physicians are responsible for making admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment at the cancer centers that we operate. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our cancer centers may depend, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians and the medical staffs of our cancer centers, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. in many cases, physicians are not employees of our cancer centers, and, in a number of the regions in which we operate, physicians have admitting privileges at other cancer centers or hospitals in addition to our cancer centers. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from treating patients at our facilities and our results of operations may decline. in addition, we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management, nurses and other medical personnel. there is a nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel in india which from time to time may require us to enhance wages and benefits in order to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. to the extent we cannot hire adequate numbers of medical support personnel, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our results of operation. 41 we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. our cancer centers face competition for patients from other cancer centers, hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry in india is highly competitive and competition among cancer centers, hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other cancer centers or hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our facilities. we also face competition from specialty hospitals (some of which are physician-owned) and unaffiliated freestanding outpatient centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. in recent years, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals, surgery centers, emergency departments, urgent care centers and diagnostic imaging centers in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. furthermore, some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by government agencies or not-for-profit organizations supported by endowments and charitable contributions and can finance capital expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than we are, we may experience an overall decline in patient volumes. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. our ctsi operations in india are subject to a wide variety of indian national and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our cancer centers and third-party customers of our ampath business. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions against our cancer centers and third-party customers of our ampath business in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. we maintain limited healthcare professional liability insurance coverage and do not maintain errors and omissions insurance. our insurance coverage may be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us, we may have to pay substantial damages if they are not covered by insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. risks relating to the manufacture of our products any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict the manufacture of products, cause delays in delivery, or significantly increase our costs. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose rate brachytherapy, klystrons for linear accelerators and specialized integrated circuits and various other components; radiofrequency components, magnets, patient positioning systems and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems, and vacuum sleeves for our cryoablation products. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and 42 subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited-sourced or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. in addition, following the separation of our former imaging components business into varex in january 2017, varex is the sole source supplier of tubes, panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our on-board imager. any disruption or reduction in the supply of these components could result in delays or reductions in our product deliveries, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. also, any unforecasted increases in the price of these components could adversely impact our profitability. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods. we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for oncology systems and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for proton solutions. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial results may suffer if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products. many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. we rely on third parties to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. disruptions at our logistics providers may adversely impact our business. third-party logistics providers store a significant portion of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and perform a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. if any of our logistics providers terminates its relationship with us, suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or if we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our spare parts, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. risks relating to our regulatory environment we operate in a highly regulated industry, and we face significant costs in complying with laws and regulations. failure or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or complying with laws and regulations could delay or prevent product distribution, the introduction of new products or services and result in significant fines and penalties. we operate in a highly regulated industry and our products and services are subject to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, as discussed in part 1, item 1. business - government regulation. our products, services and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california and other u.s. states, the nuclear regulatory commission ("nrc ) and regulatory bodies in the countries and regions in which we market our products and services. for example, we must comply with fda medical device clearance and reporting regulations, and similar laws in numerous foreign countries, including the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada; and we must comply with nrc clearance, approval and licensing requirements and other federal, state and foreign laws that regulate the use of radioactive materials. we are also subject to laws and regulations in india and sri lanka in relation to the operation of healthcare establishments. compliance with these regulations can be costly, time consuming and burdensome, may negatively impact our ability to market our products and services or result in significant delays or even prevent the marketing and full 43 commercialization of future products or services. moreover, failure to obtain regulatory approvals or renewals in a timely manner could subject us to fines and penalties. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency, false claims and misleading advertisements. these laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business or the businesses of our customers. non-compliance with anti-kickback , false claims and transparency laws and regulations can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs. we are also subject to laws and regulations related to the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of personal data, including under the eu general data protection regulation ("gdpr") and data protection legislation in other foreign jurisdictions and the california consumer privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ) and similar laws in the united states, at both the federal and state level. the compliance and other burdens imposed by the gdpr, ccpa and similar privacy laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, require us to modify our data handling practices, slow the pace at which we close sales transactions and impose additional costs and burdens. in particular, the collection, storage, transfer and use of patient information and data obtained through our aoi business operations is highly regulated by applicable law. in addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and/or significant fines, could negatively impact our reputation, and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. further, in july 2020, the court of justice of the european union released a decision in the schrems ii case (data protection commission v. facebook ireland, schrems), declaring the eu-us privacy shield invalid and calling into question data transfers carried out under the european commission's standard contractual clauses. as a result of the decision, we may face additional scrutiny from eu regulators in relation to the transfer of personal data from the eu to the us. noncompliance with the gdpr can trigger fines of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual revenues. as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities that require clinical trials, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the united states or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, monitoring, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject us to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, rejection of data generated in the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. in addition, without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure you that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. any failure or delay in complying with one or more of the regulatory requirements we face could result in reduced sales, increased costs, delays to new product introductions, enhancements or our strategic plans, or harm to our reputation or competitiveness, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. healthcare reform legislation including the affordable care act and state-level legislation may adversely affect our business. the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the aca ) became effective in 2010. the aca could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. discussions relating to the aca have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and acos. acos and bundled payment programs were established by the aca to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. acos and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. however, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and bundled reimbursement payments. these and other elements of the aca, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and medical procedure volumes. we believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy in the united states could be adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the aca and reimbursement rates for 44 radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and could result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenues from quarter-to-quarter. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals, uncertainty related to implementation of aca provisions, and instability within insurance markets created under the aca, will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government's role in the united states healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. in addition, it is possible that changes in administration and policy, including the potential repeal of all or parts of the aca could result in additional proposals and/or changes to health care system legislation which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the full effect that a full or partial repeal of the aca would have on our business remains unclear at this time. we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us. changes to radiation oncology, reimbursements, and insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and stock price. sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to inhibit individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs were lower. third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers at a level that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare makes a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms") to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts may extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates and coverage for modalities and indications for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement and coverage of procedures for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. in addition, in september of 2020, cms released the centers for medicare and medicaid innovation center's radiation oncology (ro) alternative payment model final rule. the ro model is intended to test an episodic payment structure across a cohort of u.s. hospitals and freestanding cancer centers which would reduce medicare expenditures, while preserving or enhancing the quality of care. the ro model effective date is january 1, 2021 and will end december 31, 2025 and includes 30% of medicare radiotherapy episodes. on october 21, 2020, cms announced that it intends to delay the ro model start date to july 1, 2021. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, as a result of the ro model or otherwise, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders, make it more difficult for us to collect payments on outstanding accounts receivable or indebtedness from our proton therapy center customers or debtors, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and stock price. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. any violation of federal, state or foreign laws governing our business practices may result in substantial penalties. investigation into our business practices could cause adverse publicity and harm our business. anti-corruption laws and regulations. we are subject to the united states foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, and the law on the fundamentals of health 45 protection in the russian federation. any violation of these laws by us or our partners, agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international's 2019 corruption perceptions index found that approximately sixty-seven percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. moreover, our recent acquisitions of ctsi and alicon have significantly increased our operations in india and china, respectively. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, we have conducted and have been subject to, and in the future expect to conduct or be subject to, internal investigations or audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies. any such investigation or proceeding results in costs and management distraction, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. an adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties as well as reputational harm, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. competition laws. we are subject to competition laws in the regions where we do business. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. in addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can result in liability. we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires substance information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain access to certain markets. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our intellectual property protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, which would harm our business. we file applications for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot assure you that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or the patents for technologies licensed to us by third parties will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases, our products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in 46 litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts resources. an unfavorable outcome in such litigation or proceedings could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. our efforts to protect our intellectual property do not prevent competitors from independently developing similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or from designing around our proprietary technologies, which could harm us. in addition, the regulations of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. in addition to patents, we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them, which could adversely impact our business. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products. there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of the intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties asserting infringement and we are subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. risks relating to our common stock fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, margins, and cash flows may cause our stock price to be volatile, resulting in losses for our stockholders. we have experienced and expect to experience periodic fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues, margins and cash flows. drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. the timing of order placement, equipment installation and revenue recognition affect our quarterly results. once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the backlog amounts) and the timing of revenue include: 47 delay in shipment due (e.g. an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed), cancellations or rescheduling by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, many of which are out of our control, including, among other things: changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels; imposition of tariffs on our products or components and services used in our products; negative publicity about our products and services; impairment of loans, notes receivables, accounts receivable; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by different geographic regions; fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or pandemics, such as the recent covid-19 pandemic; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which presently carry lower gross margins than do our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would likely decline. we report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the quarterly review or annual audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. order cancellation or delays in delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods. in addition, our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. 48 general risks unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial results. from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims. for example, in october 2018, best medical international, inc. ("best medical") filed a complaint for patent infringement against us in the united states district court for the district of delaware alleging that several of our products infringe several of best medical's patents. while it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation and difficult to make a reasonable estimate of loss or range of losses, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel. our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers, as well as universities and research institutions. as we continue to grow our software revenues, we face intense competition for personnel from software and technology companies. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. in addition, some of our executive officers have had long careers at our company. if these executives retire or leave, and we are unable to locate qualified or suitable replacements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. changes in the interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results. we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), the american institute of certified public accountants, the sec and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate each period. we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles than we have applied in past periods, including accounting principles regarding revenue recognition. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may also make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. in fiscal year 2020, the mptc series b-1 and b-2 bonds (collectively "mptc" bonds) and the aptc securities were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired due to a decrease in trade prices of comparable bonds. we believe that it is more likely than not that we will not recover the losses before these bonds are sold. in fiscal year 2020, we recorded a $16.9 million impairment on our mptc bonds and a $0.9 million impairment on our aptc securities. we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our financing receivables and our loans to proton solutions customers. primarily as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, during march and april 2020, cptc suffered material negative impacts to its operating plan, including declines in current and projected patient volume and delays in partnership with a significant clinical partner. therefore, we concluded it was no longer probable that we will collect the amounts owed under the term loan and revolving loan (collectively "cptc loans") when due and recorded a $40.5 million impairment charge in the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. as of october 2, 2020, we had $11.8 million in carrying value of loans outstanding to cptc, and $106.8 million in carrying value of notes receivable, including accrued interest to proton solutions customers, available-for-sale securities, and short-term senior secured debt. see note 15, "proton solutions loans and investment," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the last economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer's country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency sale transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries' functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to fifteen months in maturity. 75 we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currency or the u.s. dollar. however, our foreign exchange forward contract gains or losses may impact our effective tax rate. the notional values of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of october 2, 2020, in our balance sheet hedge program were $459.7 million and $117.5 million, respectively. the notional values of our sold foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of october 2, 2020, in our cash flow hedge program were $197.6 million. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. our investment portfolio primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities as of october 2, 2020. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents in continuing operations at october 2, 2020 totaled $766.1 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.07%. our available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. at october 2, 2020, our available-for-sale securities, which include accrued interest are as follows: ($ in millions) fair value interest rate mptc series b-1 bonds $ 18.9 7.5 % mptc series b-2 bonds $ 20.6 8.5 % aptc securities $ 5.4 8.5 % we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our revolving credit facility. at october 2, 2020, borrowings under the revolving credit facility totaled $355.0 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.18%. if the amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by $3.6 million. see note 7, "borrowings," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information about our credit agreement and other borrowing arrangements. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. in addition, although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 76quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 59quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to two primary types of market risks: foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse movements could have a material negative impact 63 on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia and australia. we have significant transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and adhere to a policy of hedging firmly committed foreign currency denominated sales orders. these firmly committed foreign currency sales orders, excluding the amounts relating to the products made outside of the united states, are hedged with forward exchange contracts. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward exchange contracts range from one to twelve months in original maturity. as of september 30, 2005, we did not have any forward exchange contracts with an original maturity greater than twelve months, but we may hedge beyond twelve months in the future. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units having u.s. dollar functional currencies. we enter into monthly foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward exchange contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward exchange contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. accordingly, we believe that our hedging strategy should yield no material net impact to our results of operations or cash flows. the notional values of sold and purchased forward exchange contracts for both hedges of foreign currency denominated sales orders and balance sheet exposures from our subsidiaries outstanding at september 30, 2005 are as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased unrealized gain (loss) fair value australian dollar $ 39.7 $ $ $ 0.3 british pound 59.3 4.0 (1.3 ) (1.3 ) canadian dollar 18.0 3.1 0.5 0.7 danish krone 2.3 3.2 euro 229.7 3.9 (4.0 ) (4.1 ) japanese yen 42.5 (1.1 ) (1.3 ) new zealand dollar 2.2 norwegian krone 17.6 2.5 0.2 swedish krona 7.0 swiss franc 29.9 totals $ 418.3 $ 46.6 $ (5.7 ) $ (5.7 ) interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio. currently, our investment portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid short-term marketable securities, as well as a small amount of long-term marketable securities. in the unlikely event that interest rates were to decrease substantially, we might reinvest a substantial portion of our investment 64 portfolio at lower interest rates. we would consider additional debt obligations to support general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and acquisitions. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate in our investment portfolio or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the principal amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at september 30, 2005 totaled $382 million with a weighted average interest rate of 2.85% and an estimated average tax equivalent yield of 3.37%. the principal amount of marketable securities had an estimated average tax equivalent yield of 3.81% at september 30, 2005. all of our marketable securities at september 30, 2005 were in municipal bonds. our investment portfolio of marketable securities is primarily classified as held-to-maturity (with the exception of our auction rate securities which are classified as available-for-sale), and any gains or losses relating to changes in interest rates would occur in the unlikely event of liquidation of all or part of the investment portfolio. our debt of $60.0 million at september 30, 2005 carried a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.89% with principal payments due in various installments over a ten-year period. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and long term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 243.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 243.0 average interest rate 3.02 % 3.02 % marketable securities $ 135.4 $ 3.7 $ $ $ $ $ 139.1 average interest rate 2.55 % 2.64 % 2.55 % liabilities: long term debt $ 2.7 $ 7.9 $ 9.0 $ 8.0 $ 9.0 $ 23.4 $ 60.0 average interest rate 7.17 % 6.90 % 6.84 % 6.90 % 6.85 % 6.89 % 6.89 % mandatorily redeemable instrument $ $ 12.5 $ $ $ $ $ 12.5 average interest rate 0.17 % 0.17 % the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (52% of which was held abroad at september 30, 2005 and could be subject to additional taxation if it was repatriated in the united states) approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the fair value of our debt is estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. under this method, the fair value of our debt is estimated to be $63.7 million at september 30, 2005. we determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. however, it requires considerable judgment in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. accordingly, the fair value estimate presented is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instrument could realize in a current market exchange. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 65risk factors 21 item 1b unresolved staff comments 39 item 2. properties 39 item 3. legal proceedings 39 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 39 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 40 item 6. selected financial data 41 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 43 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 67 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 70 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 117 item 9a. controls and procedures 117 item 9b other information 117 part iii item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant 118 item 11. executive compensation 118 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 119 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions 119 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 119 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 120 signatures 124 2 table of contents forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, or md&amp;a, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 which provides a safe harbor for statements about future events, products and future financial performance that are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and information currently available to the management of varian medical systems, inc. ( we, our or the company ). the outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results and the outcome or timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in these forward-looking statements due to the factors listed under risk factors, and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission, or sec. for this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook; market acceptance of or transition to new products or technology such as intensity modulated radiation therapy, image guided radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, brachytherapy, software, treatment techniques, and advanced x-ray products; growth drivers; future orders, revenues, backlog or earnings growth; other financial results and any statements using the terms believe, expect, expectation, anticipate, can, should, would, could, estimate, appear, based on, may, intended, potential, are emerging and possible or similar statements are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and the outcome and timing of certain events to differ materially from those projected or management current expectations. by making forward-looking statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us to, update or revise those statements because of new information, future events or otherwise. part i item 1. business general we, varian medical systems, inc., are a delaware corporation and were originally incorporated in 1948 as varian associates, inc. in 1999, we transferred our instruments business to varian, inc., or vi, a wholly owned subsidiary, and transferred our semiconductor equipment business to varian semiconductor equipment associates, inc., or vsea, a wholly owned subsidiary. we retained the medical systems business, principally the sales and service of oncology products and the sales of x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems. on april 2, 1999, we spun off vi and vsea, which resulted in a non-cash dividend to our stockholders and which we refer to as the spin-offs in this annual report on form 10-k. immediately after the spin-offs, we changed our name to varian medical systems, inc. we have been engaged in aspects of the medical systems business since 1959. an amended and restated distribution agreement dated as of january 14, 1999 and other associated agreements govern our ongoing relationships with vi and vsea. overview we are a world leader in the design, manufacture, sales and services of advanced equipment and software products for treating cancer with radiation. we also design, manufacture, sell and service high quality, cost-effective x-ray tubes for original equipment manufacturers, or oems; replacement x-ray tubes; flat panel digital image detectors for filmless x-rays (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors) for medical, dental, veterinary, scientific and industrial applications; and linear accelerators for security and inspection purpose. our largest business segment is oncology systems, which designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer with radiation, including linear accelerators, treatment simulation and verification products, information management and treatment planning software, advanced brachytherapy products and software and other sophisticated accessory products and services. our products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform 3 table of contents conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer the advanced treatment processes of intensity modulated radiation therapy, or imrt, image guided radiation therapy, or igrt, stereotactic radiosurgery and stereotactic radiotherapy, as well as treat patients using brachytherapy techniques, which involve radiation treatment of tumors with implanted radioactive sources. our customers include comprehensive cancer treatment clinics, university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. our second business segment is x-ray products, which manufactures and sells x-ray imaging components and subsystems, namely (i) x-ray tubes for use in a range of applications including computed tomography, or ct, scanning, radioscopic/fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications and (ii) flat panel detectors for digital x-ray image capture, which is an alternative to image intensifier tubes for fluoroscopy and x-ray film for radiography. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are sold to large imaging system oems that incorporate these x-ray imaging components and subsystems into their medical diagnostic imaging systems and industrial imaging systems. our x-ray tubes are also sold directly to end-users for replacement purposes. our flat panel detectors are also being incorporated into next generation imaging equipment, including equipment for igrt and for dental ct scanning and veterinary x-ray imaging. we have two other businesses that we report together under the other category. our security and inspection products business, or sip, designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. we generally sell our linatron x-ray accelerators to oems, who incorporate our accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government and military agencies, as well as to commercial private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. our ginzton technology center, or gtc, develops technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital x-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, improved x-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. in addition, we are developing technologies and products that promise to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy. during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we separated sip from the oncology systems business segment to be a standalone business and reported sip with gtc under the other category. concurrently, we moved the brachytherapy business unit from the other category to the oncology systems business segment. both of these moves reflect how our chief executive officer, the chief operating decision maker, has begun to evaluate the brachytherapy operations in conjunction with the oncology systems business due to the natural synergies in the area of radiation therapy oncology and the growth of the sip into its own distinct market and business. our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the factors described in risk factors in conjunction with the description of our business set forth below and the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. radiation therapy and the cancer-care market radiation therapy, which is also referred to as radiotherapy, is commonly used in the treatment of cancer, either alone or in combination with surgery or chemotherapy. an important advantage of radiation therapy is that the radiation acts with some selectivity on cancer cells. when a cell absorbs radiation, the radiation affects the cell genetic structure and inhibits its replication, leading to its gradual death. cancerous cells must replicate in order to cause disease; therefore the radiation they absorb can disproportionately damage them. currently, the most common type of radiotherapy uses x-rays delivered by external beams, also sometimes referred to as external beam radiotherapy, and is 4 table of contents administered using linear accelerators. linear accelerators are conventionally used for multiple, or fractionated, treatments of a tumor in up to 50 radiation sessions. imrt is an advanced form of radiation therapy in which the intensity and angle of the radiation beams from a linear accelerator are varied, or modulated, across the target area of the patient being treated. this conforms the radiation beams more closely to the shape of the tumor and allows doctors to deliver higher doses of radiation to tumors while limiting the amount of radiation directed at nearby healthy tissue. in this way, clinicians can design and deliver an individualized treatment plan for each patient, targeting the patient tumor as closely as possible. imrt can be used to treat head and neck, breast, prostate, pancreatic, lung, liver, gynecological and central nervous system cancers. imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment for cancer and more clinics every year, from university hospitals to local community clinics, continue to adopt treatments using imrt. we have been a leading provider of products to enable imrt treatment of cancer. igrt is the most advanced radiation therapy technology that complements imrt to further enhance radiation therapy treatments. while imrt helps doctors shape and conform the radiation beam to that of the tumor, igrt goes to the next step of allowing doctors to accommodate for tumor movement and avoid more healthy tissue that otherwise would be irradiated when a tumor moves or shrinks. this enables the delivery of higher doses of radiation to tumors in a more effective manner, while sparing more of the surrounding healthy tissue. igrt brings technologies that compensate for daily changes and movements in tumors and enables dynamic, real-time visualization and precise treatment of small, moving and changing tumors with greater intensity and accuracy. with this greater precision offered by igrt, clinics and hospitals are potentially able to improve outcomes by concentrating even higher doses of radiation at the tumors. we are seeing customers accept igrt as the next significant enhancement in curative radiation therapy and demand for our products for igrt is one of the main contributors to net orders and revenue growth in our oncology systems business segment. stereotactic radiosurgery (also referred to as image-guided radiosurgery) is an advanced radiation treatment procedure that employs linear accelerators and igrt technology to eradicate cancerous, non-cancerous and functional lesions anywhere in the body, by delivering a few very precisely placed, high dose beams of radiation. as an alternative to the external beam radiation therapy methods described above, brachytherapy treatments involve the insertion of radioactive seeds, wires or ribbons directly into a tumor or into a body cavity close to the cancerous area. these modalities, unlike external beam radiation therapy, do not require the radiation to pass through surrounding healthy tissue in order to reach the tumor and the doctor can give a higher total dose of radiation in a shorter time. brachytherapy often is used for cancers of the head and neck, breast, uterus, thyroid, cervix and prostate. the radiation oncology market is growing globally and a number of factors are contributing to this expansion. annual cancer rates around the world are projected to increase by 50% to 15 million new cases in the year 2020, as indicated by the world cancer report issued by the international agency for research on cancer in the world health organization. according to the world cancer report, the predicted sharp increase in new cases will mainly be due to steadily aging populations in both developed and developing countries and also due to current trends in smoking prevalence and the growing adoption of unhealthy life styles. for example, the u.s. census report indicates that the population over 65 years of age in the united states is expected to increase by 41% to 48 million in 2015 from 34 million in 2000. the u.s. chart data from the national cancer institute surveillance, epidemiology, and end results program also indicates that the number of cases diagnosed annually could double in the united states to 2.6 million by 2050. the rise in cancer cases, together with the increase in sophistication of new treatment processes, have created demand for more automated products that can be integrated into clinically practical systems to make treatments more rapid and cost effective. technology advances leading to improvements in patient 5 table of contents care, the availability of more advanced, automated and efficient clinical tools in radiation therapy and the advent of more precise forms of radiotherapy treatment, such as imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy, should drive the demand for our products and services, in particular those of our oncology systems segment, as patients seek more effective treatments. in general, we have experienced historical cycles where the north american region tends to adopt the newest technologies at a faster rate, with adoption by the international regions tending to lag two to three years. the international markets in particular are under-equipped with radiation therapy systems to address the growing cancer incidence. cancer patients in many foreign countries must frequently endure long waits for radiotherapy treatment. many of these countries are expanding and upgrading their radiotherapy services to care for their cancer patients. the relatively weak u.s. dollar has also effectively made pricing more competitive for u.s.-based companies such as ours. shortages of radiotherapy equipment in the international markets and, to a lesser extent, the weak u.s. dollar represent additional drivers for continued growth in the international markets. products oncology systems our oncology systems business segment designs, manufactures, sells and services equipment and software products for radiation treatment of cancer. we are a leading provider of advanced products such as linear accelerators, treatment simulators and verification products, information management and treatment planning software and other sophisticated accessory products and services for conventional radiation therapy, imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiosurgery and stereotactic radiotherapy. the radiotherapy process typically consists of examining the patient, planning the therapeutic approach, simulating and verifying the treatment plan, delivering treatment, verifying that the treatments are being delivered correctly, providing quality assurance for all the devices involved in the treatment process, recording the history and results of treatment and obtaining reimbursement for the radiotherapy services provided. we provide products that help perform most of these tasks. our focus, however, is addressing the key concerns of the market for advanced cancer care systems, including the continuing demand for enhanced capabilities and quality of radiation therapy treatments and improved efficiency, precision, cost-effectiveness and ease of delivery of these treatments. a core element of our business strategy is to provide our customers with highly versatile, clinically proven products that can be configured and integrated into automated systems that combine greater precision and greater cost effectiveness. we have designed our individual products so that they can be interconnected into automated systems that enhance the entire process of treating a patient. by allowing for interconnection into automated systems, our products and technology are also more cost-effective, since doctors are able to schedule and treat more patients within a set time period. our products and accessories for imrt and igrt allow clinicians to very precisely track and treat tumors using shaped beams, thereby targeting the tumor as closely as possible and allowing the delivery of higher doses of radiation to the tumor, while limiting exposure of nearby healthy tissue. with our treatment planning, verification and information management software products, treatment plans, patient treatment data and images are recorded and stored in a single database shared by each of our products, which enables effective communication among products. additionally, the precision and versatility of our products and technology makes possible the use of radiation therapy to treat metastatic lesions, thereby allowing for multiple medical specialties radiation oncology, neurosurgery, imaging and medical oncology to share equipment, resources and information in a more cost-effective manner. linear accelerators are the core device for delivering conventional radiation therapy, imrt and igrt treatment procedures and we produce versions of these devices to suit various facility requirements and treatment needs. our clinac &reg; medical linear accelerators are used to treat cancer by producing therapeutic electrons and x-ray beams that target tumors and other abnormalities in a patient. the 6 table of contents clinac ix series is the latest in this product line and these accelerators are designed to facilitate more streamlined and advanced treatment processes including imrt and igrt. we also produce the trilogy linear accelerator, designed to be a very versatile, cost-effective, ultra-precise radiotherapy treatment product with a faster dose delivery rate and smaller isocenter. trilogy was developed with igrt and stereotactic radiotherapy in mind, but is also capable of delivering conventional, 3d conformal radiotherapy and imrt. trilogy has the precision necessary to deliver stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments. we also manufacture and market accessory products to the linear accelerator that enhance the capabilities and efficiency of the linear accelerator in delivering radiotherapy treatments and allow for delivery of advanced treatments such as imrt, igrt and stereotactic radiosurgery. our millennium series of multi-leaf collimators are accessory devices that are used with a linear accelerator to define the size, shape and intensity of the radiation beams generated by the linear accelerator. portalvision , our electronic portal-imager, is used to verify a patient treatment position, which is critical for accurate delivery of radiotherapy treatments. we also offer an innovative real-time patient position monitoring product, the rpm respiratory gating system, which allows the linear accelerator to be synchronized with patient breathing to help compensate for tumor motion during the course of treatment. our accessory products designed specifically for enabling igrt include our on-board imager product, or obi, which allows dynamic, real-time imaging of tumors while on the treatment couch, and the cone-beam computerized tomography for obi, or cbct. cbct allows patient positioning based on soft-tissue anatomy. using sophisticated image analysis tools, cbct allows comparison of the cbct scan with a reference ct scan to determine how the treatment couch should be moved to fine-tune the patient treatment setup. therefore, to deliver the most advanced forms of igrt or stereotactic radiosurgery, a clinac ix or trilogy accelerator would typically also have an obi, portalvision and other igrt-related hardware and software as accessories. we also have in our product portfolio the sonarray ultrasound imaging device for patient positioning and stereotactic treatment planning software for use in developing treatment plans for stereotactic radiosurgery. our software products enhance and enable the delivery of advanced radiation therapy treatments, from the initial treatment planning and plan quality assurance verification to the post-treatment recording of treatment and image data and storing of patient information. prior to any treatment, particularly imrt, igrt and stereotactic radiosurgery, physicians must plan the course of radiation delivery for the patient. to assist physicians with developing these treatment delivery plans, we offer a range of treatment planning products. our eclipse treatment planning system provides doctors with 3d image viewing, treatment simulation, radiation dosage calculation and verification and other tools for generating treatment delivery plans for the patient. the eclipse software utilizes a sophisticated technique known as inverse planning to enable the physicians to rapidly develop optimal treatment plans based on a desired radiation dose outcome to the tumor and surrounding tissue. our argus line of software products allows the management of quality control data for radiation therapy products. finally, our aria oncology information management system, or aria, is the latest information management software system, which integrates the features of our previous products, varis &reg; vision and varis medoncology, as well as additional enhancements, into a new and more comprehensive real-time information management system and database that enables users to operate filmless and paperless cancer clinics. aria records and verifies radiotherapy treatment procedures carried out on the linear accelerator, performs patient charting and manages patient information and patient image data. aria also records and stores patient data relating to chemotherapy treatment procedures, which may be prescribed by a physician in addition to radiation therapy. therefore, clinics have the ability to manage treatment and patient information across radiation oncology and medical oncology procedures. our treatment simulators enable physicians to simulate radiation therapy treatments prior to treatment delivery. in addition to portalvision, our portal-imaging product, we also manufacture and sell acuity , a simulator which uses advanced amorphous silicon imaging technology and which has been designed to facilitate imrt treatments both by integrating simulation more closely with treatment planning and by 7 table of contents helping physicians deal better with tumor motions caused by breathing. in 2005, we launched the dynamic adaptive radiotherapy initiative, or dart, to promote better combined usage of imaging and planning in the delivery of radiation therapy in order to adjust for patient motion, breathing, and anatomical and physiological changes that occur during the course of therapy. features of our products that allow for cost-efficient decision support as well as data collection and analysis for the development of more broadly shared treatment standards will be a key component in our dart initiative. therefore, our products for igrt with the capabilities offered by aria will be a cornerstone of dart. we expect that the guiding principles of dart will lead to a continuing string of product enhancements that improve the outcomes, standards, and cost effectiveness of cancer care and, therefore, contribute to continuing growth for the oncology systems business. in addition to offering our own suite of equipment and software products for planning and delivering radiation therapy treatments, we have partnered with general electric medical systems, or ge, in north america and established a see and treat cancer care program for radiation therapy. through see and treat cancer care, we can offer radiation oncology facilities an integrated suite of cancer treatment tools that combines our comprehensive set of radiation therapy products with ge advanced diagnostic imaging systems. during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we moved the brachytherapy business unit from the other category to the oncology systems business segment. brachytherapy designs, manufactures, sells and services advanced brachytherapy products, including treatment planning software, high dose rate products, the varisource and gammamed afterloaders, the brachyvision treatment planning system, applicators and accessories. brachytherapy also develops and markets the variseed treatment planning system for permanent prostate seed implants. revenues from our oncology systems business segment represented 84% of total revenues for each of fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. our oncology systems business segment revenues also include service revenues. see customer services and support. for a discussion of oncology systems business segment financial information, see note 14 segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. x-ray products our x-ray products business segment, or x-ray products, is a world leader in designing and manufacturing components and subsystems for x-ray imaging, including x-ray-generating tubes and flat panel detectors. x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are key components of x-ray imaging systems. we sell our products to oems for new system configurations and replacement x-ray tubes for installed systems. we conduct an active research and development program to focus on new technology and applications in both the medical and industrial x-ray imaging markets. we manufacture x-ray tubes for four primary medical diagnostic radiology applications: ct scanners; radiographic/fluoroscopic imaging; special procedures; and mammography. we also offer a large line of industrial x-ray tubes, which consist of analytical x-ray tubes used for x-ray fluorescence and diffraction, as well as tubes used for non-destructive imaging and gauging and airport baggage inspection systems. our flat panel detectors, which are based on amorphous silicon imaging technologies, have found broad application as an alternative to image intensifier tubes or x-ray film. these flat panel detectors are being incorporated into next generation medical diagnostic and industrial imaging systems and also serve as a key component of our obi, which helps enable igrt. they are also being incorporated into dental ct scanning and veterinary x-ray imaging systems. we expect that imaging equipment based on amorphous silicon technologies may be more stable and reliable, have fewer adjustments and suffer less degradation over time than image intensifier tubes, and will be more cost effective over time than x-ray film. sales of flat panel detectors are emerging as a key contributor to revenue growth in this segment. 8 table of contents the fundamental growth driver of this business segment is the on-going success of key oems that incorporate our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. revenues from the x-ray products business segment represented 14%, 14% and 13% of total revenues in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. for a discussion of the x-ray products business segment financial information, see note 14, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. other we also manufacture, sell and service, through our sip business, linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. sip has also developed a new type of dual energy accelerator, the linatron k9, which can aid in automatically detecting and alerting operators when high-density nuclear materials associated with dirty bombs or weapons of mass destruction are present during cargo screening and non-intrusive inspection of cargo containers. we generally sell our linatron x-ray accelerators to oems who incorporate them into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government agencies, as well as to commercial private parties for nondestructive examination of objects, such as air and sea cargo containers and all types of transport vehicles in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries, as well as government and military inspection applications. the primary use of our sip products delivered during fiscal year 2006 has been in overseas ports and borders where they are used to screen for contraband, weapons, stowaways, narcotics and explosives as well as for manifest verification. our products and technology can also be employed for use in the sterilization of food and medical products. we believe growth in this business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. as a result, this business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations and are subject to political changes. the ginzton technology center, our research facility, identifies and addresses new and potential markets. through gtc, we are developing technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital x-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging and improved x-ray sources. in addition, we are developing technologies and products that promise to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy. in the area of industrial security, gtc is engaged in a joint research project with the palo alto research center, a subsidiary of xerox corporation, to develop technology for security and cargo screening applications at airports and seaports under a grant from the united states department of commerce. these efforts are designed to develop new products and technologies for our future business. sip and gtc report their results from operations as part of the other category. combined revenues from these operations represented 2%, 2% and 3% of total revenues in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. for a discussion of segment financial information, see note 14 segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. customer services and support we maintain service centers in milpitas, california; las vegas, nevada; des plaines, illinois; clark, new jersey; marietta, georgia; richardson, texas; corona, california; mechanicsburg, pennsylvania; buc, france; crawley, uk; zug, switzerland; copenhagen, denmark; brussels, belgium; houten, the netherlands; madrid, spain; milan, italy; manama, bahrain; mumbai, india; tokyo and osaka, japan; beijing, shanghai and hong kong, china; kuala lumpur, malaysia; singapore; bangkok, thailand; 9 table of contents belrose, australia; and sao paulo, brazil; as well as field service forces throughout the world for oncology systems customer support services. key logistics and education operations are located in las vegas, nevada. our network of service engineers and customer support specialists provide installation, warranty, repair, training and support services, and professional services. we generate service revenues by providing services to customers on a time-and-materials basis and through comprehensive service contracts and software support contracts. most of the field service engineers are our employees, but in a few foreign countries, field services are provided by employees of dealers and/or agents. customers can access our extensive service network by calling any of our service centers located throughout north america, europe, asia, australia and latin america. we warrant most of our oncology systems products for parts and labor for twelve months. we offer a variety of post-warranty equipment service agreements and software support agreements that permit customers to contract for the level of equipment maintenance and/or software support they require. we believe customer service and support are an integral part of our oncology systems competitive strategy. service contract gross margin has improved in fiscal year 2006. growth drivers for our service revenues include the increased sophistication of our products (particularly software products, which generate software maintenance contracts) and growth in the installed base of our products. we also believe superior service capability, availability and responsiveness play an important role in marketing and selling medical equipment and systems, particularly as the technological sophistication of the products increases. nevertheless, many of our customers use their own internal service organizations and/or independent service organizations to service equipment after the warranty period expires. therefore, we cannot guarantee full conversion to maintenance or service contracts after the warranty period expires. we warrant all of our x-ray tubes and flat panel detector products in our x-ray products business segment. we provide technical advice and consultation for x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems products to major oem customers from our offices in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; tokyo, japan; and willich, germany. our applications specialists and engineers make recommendations to meet the customer technical requirements within the customer budgetary constraints. we often develop specifications for a unique product, which will be designed and manufactured to meet a specific customer requirements. we also maintain a technical customer support group in charleston, south carolina to meet the technical support requirements of independent tube installers that use our x-ray tube products. marketing and sales we maintain direct sales forces in north america, europe, australia and major parts of asia and latin america. for our oncology systems segment, we use our direct sales forces to make all of our north american sales and a combination of direct sales forces and independent distributors for the international regions. our x-ray products segment also employs a combination of direct sales force and independent distributors for sales in all of its regions. our sip business employs a direct sales force for its sales to oems, governments and commercial private parties. we did not have a single customer in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 that represented 10% or more of our total revenues. we sell our oncology systems products primarily to comprehensive cancer treatment clinics, university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. as a result of on-going technological development, these clinics, hospitals, institutes, agencies and doctors offices replace equipment and upgrade treatment capability. sales cycles for our external beam radiation therapy products typically can be quite lengthy since many of our products are considered capital equipment and are affected by budgeting cycles of hospitals, clinics, institutes, agencies and doctors offices, which frequently fix capital budgets one or more years in advance. also, as newly introduced products and international revenues comprise a 10 table of contents greater portion of our orders and shipments, the average time period within which orders convert into revenues could lengthen and our deferred revenues may increase and margins may fall. reimbursement rates in the united states usually support a return on investment for the purchase of a new system with imrt and igrt capabilities in less than 18 months. however, we believe that reimbursements for existing and new treatment processes play a relatively minor role in the market for new external beam radiotherapy equipment and that the prospect of better clinical outcomes continues to be a primary growth driver for new equipment purchases. international reimbursement rates for radiation therapy tend to be low in national health systems, yet international markets continue to invest in better treatment capability, albeit often after it has been proven in the north american region or in other leading research centers worldwide. total oncology systems revenues, including service revenues were $1.3 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. we divide our market segments for oncology systems revenues into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 53%, 30%, 11% and 6%, respectively of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2006; 56%, 30%, 10% and 4%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2005 and 60%, 27%, 9% and 4%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2004. our x-ray products segment sells a high proportion of its products, including x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors, to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their imaging systems. we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of x-ray products revenues in the foreseeable future. we supply x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, shimadzu corporation, philips medical systems, ge, sound technologies, inc. and imaging sciences international, inc. these oems for our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors represented 69%, 68% and 73% of our total x-ray products segment revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, with the remaining revenues coming from a large number of small oems and independent services companies. total revenues for our x-ray products segment were $228 million, $195 million and $165 million for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. we divide our market segments for x-ray products revenues by region into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 38%, 13%, 46% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2006; 38%, 14%, 45% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2005 and 35%, 13%, 49% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2004. competition the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. we compete with companies worldwide. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. our smaller competitors could be acquired by companies with greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. some of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues. furthermore, we believe that rapid technological changes occurring in our markets will lead to the entry of new competitors, as well as our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new markets such as stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments. for example, we have directed substantial product development efforts into tighter interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system and into simplifying the usability through more intuitive user interfaces and greater software intelligence, while maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers the flexibility to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various modalities of 11 table of contents radiation therapy treatment methodologies. we anticipate that these efforts will increase adoption of imrt and igrt and will foster greater demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. conversely, one competitor is offering linear accelerator products that are closed-ended, dedicated-use systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the ability for customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products, or use the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach while enabling greater interconnectivity and simplicity-of-use or if we are unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater interconnectivity and enhance simplicity-of-use efforts, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our oncology systems customers equipment purchase considerations typically include: reliability, servicing, patient throughput, precision, price, payment terms, connectivity and clinical features. we sell our products on a total value to the customer basis. we believe we compete favorably with our competitors based upon our strategy of providing a complete package of products and services in the field of radiation oncology and our continued commitment to global distribution and customer service, value-added manufacturing, technological leadership and new product innovation. we strive to provide technologically superior, clinically proven products for substantially all aspects of radiation therapy that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes that meet or exceed customer quality and service expectations. however, our ability to compete may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, since our products are generally sold on a total value to the customer basis. this may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making purchase decisions. therefore, the impact of any such factors could have a negative effect on our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. we are the leading provider of medical linear accelerators and related accessories. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with siemens medical solutions, elekta ab, tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, computerized medical systems, inc., north american scientific, inc., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. in respect of our brachytherapy operations, our primary competitor is nucletron b.v. for the service and maintenance business for our oncology systems products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. the market for x-ray tubes is extremely competitive. some of the major medical diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary customers for our x-ray tubes, also manufacture x-ray tubes for use in their own imaging systems products. while we believe we are one of the leading independent suppliers of x-ray tubes, we must compete with these in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oem companies such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, shimadzu corporation, philips medical systems and ge, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. we incorporate our flat panel detectors into our next generation equipment for igrt within our oncology systems and also sell to a number of oems, which incorporate our flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. our significant customers include toshiba corporation, sound technologies, inc. and 12 table of contents imaging sciences international inc. we primarily compete against ge, trixell, canon, inc. and hologic, inc. in our flat panel detector product line. our sip products are sold to oems, who incorporate our accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government and military agencies, as well as to commercial private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we compete with other oem suppliers in the market for security and inspection purposes primarily outside of the united states, and our major competitor in this market is nuctech company limited. the market for our security and inspection products used for nondestructive testing in industrial application is very small and highly fractured. there is no single major competitor in this market. research and development developing products, systems and services based on advanced technological concepts is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. we maintain a product research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. research and development expenditures totaled $100 million, $82 million and $72 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 , respectively. our research and development are conducted both within the relevant product groups within the oncology systems and x-ray products businesses and through gtc. gtc maintains technical competencies in x-ray technology, imaging physics and applications, algorithms and software, electronic design, materials science and biosciences to prove feasibility of new product concepts and to improve current products. present research topics include new imaging concepts, image-based radiotherapy treatment planning and delivery, real time accommodation of moving targets, functional imaging and combined modality therapy, manufacturing process improvements, improved x-ray tubes and large-area, high resolution digital x-ray sensor arrays for cone-beam ct and other applications. gtc is also pursuing the potential of combining advances in directed energy and imaging technology with the latest breakthroughs in biotechnology by employing targeted energy to enhance the effectiveness of biological and chemical therapeutic agents. gtc is also investigating the use of x-ray and high energy accelerator, detector, and image processing technology for security applications. gtc accepts some sponsored research contracts from external agencies such as the u.s. government or private sources. within oncology systems, we conduct research to enhance the reliability and performance of existing products and to develop new products. this research is conducted primarily in the united states, switzerland, canada, england and finland. in addition, we support selected research programs at selected hospitals and clinics. current research areas within oncology systems include linear accelerator systems and accessories for medical applications, information systems, radiation therapy treatment planning software, image processing software, imaging devices, simulation, patient positioning and equipment diagnosis and maintenance tools. much of the oncology systems research relates to our next generation linear accelerators, other technology such as igrt, our monte carlo and dose calculation algorithms for our treatment planning software products and our new electronic health records within our information management software. within x-ray products, we conduct research at our salt lake city facility that is primarily focused on developing and improving x-ray imaging component and subsystem products. current research areas include bearing coating to improve x-ray tube life and reduce tube noise, and ceramic design to improve the high voltage stability of x-ray tubes. we are also working on x-ray tube designs which will operate at higher power loadings and at higher ct rotational speed to enhance the performance of next generation ct scanners. research activity geared toward enhancing performance of our flat panel imaging technology and expanding our imager product portfolio is conducted primarily at our gtc facility in mountain view, california. 13 table of contents manufacturing and supplies we manufacture our medical linear accelerators in palo alto, california and are currently building a facility in beijing, china. our treatment simulator systems, some accelerator subsystems and the obi are manufactured in crawley, england and some of our other accessory products in holliston, massachusetts, baden, switzerland, helsinki, finland, toulouse, france and winnipeg, canada. we manufacture our high dose rate brachytherapy systems in crawley, england and haan, germany and our brachytherapy treatment planning products in charlottesville, virginia. our sip linear accelerators and certain radiographic products are manufactured in las vegas, nevada. we manufacture our x-ray imaging component and subsystem products in salt lake city, utah (where we recently completed expansion of our facilities for additional flat panel detector production); charleston, south carolina; and willich, germany. these facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques and several have been honored by the press, governments and trade organizations for their commitment to quality improvement. they are certified by international standards organization, or iso, under iso 9001, iso 13485, or iso 9002. manufacturing processes at our various facilities include machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly and final testing. we have invested in various automated and semi-automated equipment for the fabrication and machining of the parts and assemblies that we incorporate into our products. we may, from time to time, invest further in such equipment. our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw material, purchased parts and assemblies through on-line inspection. we also get subassemblies from third-party suppliers and integrate them into a finished system. we outsource the manufacturing of many major subassemblies and perform system design, assembly and testing in-house. we believe outsourcing enables us to reduce fixed costs and capital expenditures, while also providing us with the flexibility to increase production capacity. we purchase material and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the source wires for high-dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, imaging panels, non-coated array sensors and coating for array sensors for the flat panels, specialized integrated circuits for imaging subassemblies, and some targets, housings and glass bulbs for x-ray tubes. backlog our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2006 was $1.4 billion, of which we expect to recognize approximately 60% to 65% into revenues in fiscal year 2007. our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2005 was $1.2 billion, of which $692 million was recognized as revenues in fiscal year 2006. our oncology systems backlog represented 93% and 94% of the total backlog at the end of fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. we recognize orders for products that are scheduled to be shipped within two years. the majority of our orders for service contracts are also included in the backlog when it becomes billable. we also include in backlog the amount of deferred revenue related to products that have been delivered but have outstanding contractual obligations or related to acceptance. semi-annually, we perform a review to determine that our backlog represents valid orders that will be converted to revenues within a reasonable period of time. the backlog review entails identifying aged backlog orders and confirming these orders with our internal sales organization. aged orders which are not expected to be converted to revenues as a result of the backlog review are deemed dormant and are subtracted from the reported backlog. deferred revenue includes (i) the amount equal to the greater of the fair value of the installation services for hardware products or the amount of the payment that is contractually linked to acceptance and (ii) for a small number of products, the entire sale price applicable to products shipped but for which installation and/or final acceptance have not been completed. as the overall mix of our backlog includes a greater proportion of software products and newly introduced oncology systems products, which typically have longer time from order to completion of installation, the average time period within which backlogs convert into revenues could lengthen. orders may be revised or canceled, 14 table of contents either according to their terms or as customers needs change; consequently, it is impossible to predict with certainty the amount of backlog that will result in revenues. in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, we reversed $41 million, $35 million and $43 million, respectively, of orders due to adjustments, revisions or cancellations. our reported net orders included all backlog reversals. product liability our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture and sale of medical devices and other products that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in: the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical purposes; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from any faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support or the misuse of our products. government regulation u.s. regulation as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure such devices are safe and effective. such regulations, which include the u.s. food, drug and cosmetic act, or the fdc act, and regulations promulgated by the fda, govern the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, possession, marketing, disposal, clinical investigations involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation producing devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. state regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. our oncology systems equipment and software constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors produced by x-ray products are also considered medical devices. future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation as such. these laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. under the fdc act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with requirements applicable to good manufacturing practices. our manufacturing operations for medical devices are required to comply with the fda quality system regulation, or qsr, which addresses a company responsibility for quality systems, the requirements of good manufacturing practices and relate to product design, testing, and manufacturing quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. the qsr requires that each manufacturer establish a quality systems program by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with fda regulations and the manufacturer written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings. among other things, these regulations require that manufacturers establish performance requirements before production. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers and may issue reports, known as form fda 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or warning letters which, if not adequately responded to, could lead to enforcement actions against the manufacturer, including fines and total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. inspections usually occur every two years. our last inspection occurred in march 2006. 15 table of contents the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or an approved pre-market approval application, or pma, before the manufacturer may take orders and distribute the product in the united states. the 510(k) clearance process is applicable when the new product being developed is substantially equivalent to an existing commercially available product. the process of obtaining 510(k) clearance generally takes at least one to three months from the date the application is filed and generally requires submitting supporting design data, which can be extensive and can extend the process for a considerable period of time beyond three months. after a product receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, packaging, or manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with the manufacturer decision, it may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a request for 510(k) pre-market notification clearance and can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the product until 510(k) clearance is obtained. if we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market approval through a pma application. under the pma process, the applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical protocol and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information in the pma application to prove the safety and effectiveness of the product. this process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pre-market approval is accepted for filing, but can take longer for the fda to review. to date, we have produced class 1 medical devices, which require no pre-market approvals or clearances, and class 2 medical devices, which require only 510(k) clearance. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are class 1 medical devices, while all of the products produced by our oncology systems segment are class 2 medical devices. the fda and the federal trade commission, or ftc, also regulate the promotion and advertising of our products. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. it is also important that our products comply with electrical safety and environmental standards, such as those of underwriters laboratories, or ul, the canadian standards association, or csa, and the international electrotechnical commission, or iec. in addition, the manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive by-product material requires a specific radioactive material license. manufacture and distribution of these radioactive sources and devices also must be in accordance with an approved nuclear regulatory commission, or nrc certificate, or an agreement state registration certificate. further, service of these products must be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. we are also subject to a variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. for a further discussion of these laws and regulations, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental matters. beyond the above-mentioned regulations, the healthcare industry and we, as a participant in the healthcare industry, are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a broad array of additional subjects. further, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, sets national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions and standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of patient health information. the healthcare industry is also subject to a number of fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws, and false claims laws. see medicare and medicaid reimbursement for a description of these laws and regulations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. 16 table of contents failure to comply with fda and other applicable regulations could result in a wide variety of actions against us, such as: investigations, form fda 483 reports of non-compliance or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production, or the imposition of operating restrictions; losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or delays in or refusals of requests for clearance or approval; seizures or recalls of our products; the inability to sell our products in the applicable jurisdiction; and criminal prosecutions. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. in addition, new laws and regulations may be adopted, which adversely affect our business. there has been a trend in recent years, both in the united states and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. medicare and medicaid reimbursement the u.s. federal government regulates reimbursement for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures furnished to medicare beneficiaries, including related physician services and capital equipment acquisition costs. for example, medicare reimbursement for operating costs for radiation treatment performed on hospital inpatients generally is set under the medicare prospective payment system, or pps, diagnosis-related group, or drg, regulations. under pps, medicare pays hospitals a fixed amount for services provided to an inpatient based on his or her drg, rather than reimbursing for the actual costs incurred by the hospital. patients are assigned to a drg based on their principal and secondary diagnoses, procedures performed during the hospital stay, age, gender and discharge status. medicare also reimburses pursuant to pps for capital costs which incorporates an add-on to the drg-based payment. hospital outpatient services are also covered by pps. under the outpatient pps system, medicare reimburses outpatient services according to rates calculated by medicare for groups of covered services known as ambulatory payment classification, or apc, groups. approximately 15 apc groups involve radiation oncology services. the reimbursement for each apc group is derived from a complicated calculation that incorporates historical cost information, including capital acquisition costs. for physicians, medicare reimburses all physicians based on two separate practice expense values for each physician service, one for when a service is furnished in a facility setting and another for when the service is performed in a physician office. typically, for a service that could be provided in either setting, the practice expense value would be higher when the service is performed in a physician office, as it would cover a physician costs such as equipment, supplies and overhead. the federal government and the congress from time to time consider various medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services in hospitals and freestanding clinics. private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government. the federal government reviews and adjusts reimbursement rates for medical procedures, including radiotherapy, on an annual basis. reimbursement for services rendered to medicaid beneficiaries is determined pursuant to each state medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law 17 table of contents and regulations. the balanced budget act of 1997 revised the medicaid program to allow each state more control over coverage and payment issues. in addition, the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the medicaid program at the state level. the impact on our business of this greater state control on medicaid payment for diagnostic services remains uncertain. cms has published a modest increase in medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates for radiotherapy procedures, such as daily treatments, planning, positioning of patients and quality assurance that will go into effect in u.s. hospitals on january 1, 2007. based upon an analysis by american medical accounting &amp; consulting, inc., or amac, we do not expect these changes to have a material impact on our oncology systems business segment in the united states. from calendar year 2006 to 2007, overall radiotherapy reimbursement rates will rise by an average of 3% for hospitals and will fall by about 6% for free standing clinics and physicians offices according to amac data. included in the cms rates are codes to reimburse igrt procedures using radiographic, fluoroscopic or computed tomography ct x-ray images for the purpose of properly positioning patients to ensure accurate delivery of radiation doses. at the announced reimbursement levels, the return on investment in the purchase of an obi accessory for medical linear accelerators could occur within 12 to 18 months. we do not expect reimbursement rates to have a material impact on customers decisions whether or not to purchase products for igrt. the sale of medical devices including radiotherapy products, the referral of patients for diagnostic examinations and treatments utilizing such devices, and the submission of claims to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) seeking reimbursement for such services, are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. these laws include physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. subject to enumerated exceptions, the federal physician self-referral law, also known as stark ii, prohibits a physician from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity with which the physician (or a family member) has a financial relationship, if the referral is for a designated health service, which is defined explicitly to include radiology and radiation therapy services. anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, induce, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of business, including the purchase of medical devices from a particular manufacturer or the referral of patients to a particular supplier of diagnostic services utilizing such devices. false claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent, for services not provided as claimed, or for medically unnecessary services. the office of the inspector general prosecutes violations of fraud and abuse laws and any violation may result in criminal and/or civil sanctions including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid. foreign regulation our operations outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda and the ftc. in addition, in foreign countries where we have operations or sell products, we are subject to laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of medical devices, radiation producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials and to the healthcare industry, and laws and regulation of general applicability relating to environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these laws and regulations are often comparable to or more stringent than u.s. laws and regulations. our sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. we rely in some countries on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with applicable regulatory requirements. 18 table of contents the european union, or eu, implemented a medical device directive that requires us to affix the conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;ene, or ce, mark to our products in order to sell the products in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to receive permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we must obtain quality system certification, e.g. iso 13485, and must otherwise have a quality management system that complies with the eu medical device directives. the iso promulgates standards for certification of quality assurance operations. we are certified as complying with the iso 9001 and iso 13485 series of standards. several asian countries, including japan and china, have adopted regulatory schemes that are comparable, and in some cases more stringent, than the eu scheme. to import medical devices into japan, the requirements of japan new medical device regulation must be met and a shonin, the approval to sell medical products in japan, must be obtained. similarly in china, a registration certification issued by the state food and drug administration and a china compulsory certification, or ccc mark, are required to sell medical devices in that country. obtaining such certifications on our products can be time-consuming and can cause us to delay marketing or sales of certain products in such countries. a number of countries, including the members of the eu, have implemented or are implementing regulations that would require manufacturers to dispose, or bear some of the costs of disposal, of their products at the end of their useful lives, and to restrict the use of some hazardous substances in certain products sold in those countries. for a further discussion of these regulations, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates and contingencies. also, many countries where we sell our products have legislation protecting the confidentiality of personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released for inclusion in our databases, or released to third parties. patent and other proprietary rights we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes, because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace. we generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our propriety rights in the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. as of september 29, 2006, we owned 142 patents issued in the united states and 61 patents issued throughout the rest of the world and we have 292 patent applications on file with various patent agencies worldwide. we intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we also have agreements with third parties that provide for licensing of patented or proprietary technology, including royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. we are licensed by the university of michigan under patents relating to flat panel detectors. environmental matters for a discussion of environmental matters, see government regulation foreign regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental matters. 19 table of contents financial information about geographic areas we do business globally with manufacturing in the united states and in europe, sales operations and customers throughout the world. roughly half of our revenues are generated from our international regions. in addition to the potentially adverse impact of foreign regulations, see government regulation foreign regulation, we also may be affected by other historical factors related to our international sales such as: lower average selling prices and profit margins; longer time periods from shipment to revenue recognition (which increases revenue recognition deferrals and time in backlog); and longer time periods from shipment to cash collection (which increases days sales outstanding, or dso). so to the extent that the geographic distribution of our sales continues to shift more towards international regions, our overall revenues and margins may suffer. also, there may be adverse consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect both the affordability and competitiveness of our products and our profit margins, because we sell our products internationally predominantly in local currencies, but our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. we do engage in currency hedging strategies to offset the effect of currency exchange fluctuations, but the protection offered by such hedges are dependent upon the timing of transactions, forecast volatility, effectiveness of such hedges and the extent of currency fluctuation. we are also exposed to other economic, political and other risks inherent in doing business globally. for an additional discussion of these risks, see risk factors in item 1a. for a discussion of financial information about geographic areas, see note 14 segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. employees at september 29, 2006, we had approximately 3,900 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 2,600 in the united states and 1,300 elsewhere. none of our employees based in the united states are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. employees based in some foreign countries may, from time to time, be subject to collective bargaining agreements. we currently consider our relations with our employees to be good. information available to investors as soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the securities and exchange commission, or sec, we make the following available free of charge on our investor relations page of our website http://www.varian.com ; our annual reports on form 10-k; quarterly reports on form 10-q; current reports on form 8-k (including any amendments to those reports); and our proxy statements. our code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit committee, compensation and management development committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available on the investor relations page of our website. additionally, we will provide copies of our reports, proxy statements, code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and committee charters, without charge, to any stockholder upon written request to the corporate secretary at our principal executive offices. executive officers of the registrant the biographical summaries of our executive officers as of november 24, 2006 are as follows: name age position timothy e. guertin 57 president and chief executive officer dow r. wilson 47 executive vice president and president, oncology systems elisha w. finney 45 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer tai-yun chen 54 corporate vice president, corporate controller robert h. kluge 60 corporate vice president and president, x-ray products john w. kuo 43 corporate vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary 20 table of contents timothy e. guertin became chief executive officer in february 2006, having served as president since august 2005. previously, he served as chief operating officer from october 2004 to february 2006, and executive vice president from october 2002 to july 2005. he also served as president of oncology systems from 1992 to january 2005. he was corporate vice president from 1992 to 2002. mr. guertin has held various other positions in the medical systems business during his 31 years with the company. mr. guertin holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the university of california at berkeley. dow r. wilson was appointed executive vice president and president, oncology systems in august 2005. he served as corporate vice president and president, oncology systems from january 2005 to august 2005. prior to joining the company in january 2005, he was chief executive officer of the healthcare-information technologies business in general electric company, or gec (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. previously, he served as general manager, surgical, x-ray and interventional businesses and general manager, functional imaging of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2002 to 2003, and was general manager, computed tomography of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2000 to 2002. during the previous 15 years, mr. wilson held various management positions within gec. mr. wilson holds a b.a. degree in english from brigham young university and an m.b.a. degree from dartmouth amos tuck school of business. elisha w. finney was appointed senior vice president, in addition to being chief financial officer, in january 2005. she was corporate vice president and chief financial officer from april 1999 to january 2005. ms. finney has held various other positions during her 18 years with the company including treasurer. she holds a b.b.a. degree in risk management and insurance from the university of georgia and an m.b.a. degree from golden gate university in san francisco. tai-yun chen was appointed corporate vice president and corporate controller in august 2006. from february 2006 to august 2006, ms. chen served as the company operations controller. from january 2002 to february 2006, ms. chen was the company assistant corporate controller, and from 2000 to january 2002 she was the company director of corporate accounting. ms. chen has served in various accounting manager positions throughout the company during her 23 years with the company. she holds a bachelor degree in economics from the national chung chi university in taiwan and a master degree in managerial economics from the university of california at santa barbara. robert h. kluge was appointed corporate vice president of the company in april 1999. prior to that, he had been vice president and general manager of our x-ray products business since 1993. before joining the company in 1993, he held various positions with picker international (an x-ray systems manufacturer). he holds a b.a. degree in economics and an m.b.a. degree in finance from the university of wisconsin. john w. kuo was appointed corporate vice president, general counsel in july 2005 and corporate secretary in may 2005. mr. kuo joined the company as senior corporate counsel in march 2003 and became associate general counsel in march 2004. prior to joining the company, mr. kuo was general counsel and secretary at broadvision, inc. (an e-commerce software provider) in 2002 and held senior legal counsel positions at 3com corporation (a networking equipment provider) from 1997 to 2002. mr. kuo has been previously with the law firms of gray cary ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper rudnick gray cary) and fulbright &amp; jaworski. mr. kuo holds a b.a. degree in biology and society from cornell university and a j.d. degree from boalt hall school of law at the university of california at berkeley. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. 21 table of contents additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer the marketplace for our oncology systems products is characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. because our products often have long development and government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. for example, most of our recent product introductions in our oncology systems business segment have related to imrt and the relatively new technology of igrt, and enhancements of existing products through greater systems integration and simplification. we believe that imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment in the radiation oncology market; however, if future studies contradict current knowledge about imrt or call into question the effectiveness of our products or show negative side effects or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our success will depend upon the continued growth in awareness, acceptance and success of imrt in general and acceptance of our products utilizing this technology in particular. however, as more institutions purchase imrt-equipped linear accelerators or upgrade their existing accelerators with imrt technology, the market for imrt-related products may become saturated and we would face competition from newer technologies. we have seen and continue to expect that the rate of growth for imrt-related equipment will be lower than what we have experienced previously, particularly in the north american market, as over 50% of our customer sites worldwide have the products and accessories necessary to perform the most advanced forms of imrt. our future success, therefore, will depend on our ability to accurately anticipate and capitalize on new customer demands through technological innovations and changes, including new technologies for treatment such as igrt. igrt is the most advanced radiation therapy technology that complements imrt to further enhance radiation therapy treatments, and we continue to invest in product development relating to igrt treatment capabilities. we are seeing customers accept igrt as the next significant enhancement in curative radiation therapy, and demand for of our products for igrt is as one of the main contributors to net orders and revenues growth in our oncology systems business segment. our future success will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the radiation oncology market of igrt and our igrt products as an evolutionary technology and methodology for radiotherapy treatment of cancers. imrt drove high order and revenue growth in north america from 1999 to 2003. we believe hospitals and clinics are converting to this new clinical process as early igrt sites demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of igrt. if our assumptions regarding the future importance of igrt are incorrect, if igrt fails to be effective as a treatment methodology, or if igrt fails to become widely accepted, our orders and revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly interested in the interconnectivity and simplicity of use of our various products for treating patients. for example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products and treatment planning and information management software products are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training and education in order to competently and safely use them. the complexity and training requirements are further increased by the products capability of operating together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into better interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system and into simplifying the usability through more intuitive user interfaces and greater software intelligence, while maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers the flexibility to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other 22 table of contents manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. we anticipate that these efforts will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt and igrt and will foster greater demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. however, we face competition from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the ability for customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products, or use the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach while enabling greater integration and simplicity-of-use, or if we are unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater integration and enhance simplicity-of-use efforts, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our x-ray products business segment sells products primarily to a limited number of oem customers who incorporate our products into their diagnostic imaging systems. some of these companies also manufacture x-ray tubes or flat panel detectors for their own systems. we, therefore, compete with these in-house x-ray tube and flat panel detector manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated systems businesses. to succeed, we must provide x-ray tube and flat panel detector products that meet our customer demands for lower cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and performance. if we are unable to continue to innovate our x-ray products technology and anticipate our customers demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease as our customers purchase from their internal manufacturing operations or from other independent x-ray tube or flat panel detector manufacturers. we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers, our competitors may develop improved products or processes, or the marketplace may conclude that the task our products were designed to do is no longer an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the market for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. if we are unable to develop new generations of products and enhancements to existing products, we may be unable to attract or retain customers or gain acceptance of our products by customers our success depends upon the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products. our oncology systems products are technologically complex and must keep pace with, among other things, new product introductions of our competitors. our x-ray products business segment must also continually innovate to develop products with lower cost, better product quality and superior technology and performance. accordingly, many of our products require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels. these activities require significant capital commitments and investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. in addition, a few of our research and development projects are funded by government contracts. changes in government priorities and our ability to attract similar funding may affect our overall research effort and ultimately, our ability to develop successful new products and product enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; 23 table of contents prove feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors efforts. additionally, our ability to gain healthcare market acceptance and demand for our new oncology systems products and treatment procedures may be also affected by the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases, which frequently fix budgets one or more years in advance. in addition, even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them available to customers or we may have longer sales and ordering timeframes due to customer budgeting cycles. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture and phase in new products, treatment systems or product enhancements. the roll-out of new products, systems and product enhancements involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation, or qsr, of the u.s. food and drug administration, or the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delayed introduction of new products, systems and product enhancements. without the successful introduction of new products, systems and product enhancements, we may be unable to attract and retain customers, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. additionally, if we fail to successfully manage the transition from old products to new products, systems and product enhancements, our customers may delay or cancel orders, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. as we roll out new products, the installation times associated with those new products generally are longer than with well-established products. because recognition of a portion of the revenue associated with those new products is tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with those products may be deferred longer than expected. while we are working to decrease the installation times associated with new products, we cannot assure you that these plans will be successful or have a meaningful impact on reducing the associated revenue recognition deferrals. furthermore, even if our plans to decrease installation times are successful, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment. as a result, our revenues may be adversely impacted over a longer period of time, and our financial results, could be adversely affected. roughly half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 49%, 47% and 44% of revenues during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. as a result, we must provide 24 table of contents significant service and support on a worldwide basis, and we have sales and service offices located throughout europe, asia, latin america and australia. in addition, we have manufacturing and research operations in england, germany, switzerland, france and finland, and are building a manufacturing facility in china. we have invested and will continue to invest substantial financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure to meet the needs of our customers. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets, although we cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully in the international markets or meet the service and support needs of our customers there. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country legal systems; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; the fact that international regions typically have a longer period from shipment to revenue recognition resulting in greater revenue recognition deferrals, higher backlog and a lower gross margin on our products; our ability to obtain u.s. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with u.s. export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. also, historically, our international sales have had lower average selling prices and gross margins. so, as the geographic distribution of our orders and sales shifts increasingly towards our international regions, our overall rate of orders growth (measured in u.s. dollars) could slow down and overall revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected. our results may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates since we sell our products internationally and have international operations, we are also subject to market risk due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect product demand, our expenses and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products and services or of our expenses is made in the local currency. we manage this risk through established policies and procedures that include the use of derivative financial instruments. we have historically entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of operational (sales orders) and balance sheet exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our forward exchange contracts generally range from one to twelve months in original maturity. although we engage in hedging strategies that may offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide will be affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges (measured by how closely the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument offset the changes in fair value of the hedged item), the number of transactions that are hedged, forecast volatility and the extent of movement of foreign currency exchange rates. if our hedging strategies are not effective in offsetting the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, our operating 25 table of contents results may be harmed. in addition, because currencies fluctuate and we engage in hedging strategies over time, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, and therefore make comparing our financial results from period to period more difficult. in addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the competitiveness of our products. even though sales of our products internationally occur predominantly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar, and some of our competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies, so our overall margins and pricing competitiveness may be adversely affected. in fact, in the recent past, we have benefited from the relatively weak u.s. dollar that has made our pricing more competitive with our foreign competitors. this has been a contributor to our international order and revenue growth. any significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other countries currencies may result in slower growth in our international orders and revenues, which then could negatively affect our overall financial performance and results. the relative weakness of the u.s. dollar against other currencies has been a subject of policy discussions within the u.s. government and among other countries governments. changes in monetary or other policies will likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and if we fail or are delayed in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals or fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be unable to distribute our products or may be subject to significant penalties our products and the products of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation, both in the united states and in foreign countries. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that medical devices receive 510(k) pre-market clearance or pre-market approval before we, as a manufacturer of medical devices, can take orders for or sell those products in the united states. in addition, modifications or enhancements to these products that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or that constitute a major change in intended use, require further fda clearance or approval. obtaining fda clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. we may fail to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for those products. if we were unable to obtain required fda approval or clearance for a product, or were limited or unduly delayed in doing so, our business would suffer. in the past, our products have either been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. the 510(k) clearance process is generally less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the premarket approval, or pma, process. if we were required to use the pma approval process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, and could cause our business to suffer. our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the fda qsr, which addresses the design, controls, methods, facilities and quality assurance used in manufacturing, assembly, packing, storing and installing medical devices. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections to determine 26 table of contents compliance with the qsr and in connection with these inspections has issued and in the future may issue reports or written notices listing instances where we have failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures or may issue warning letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures. if a warning letter were issued, we would be required to take prompt corrective action to come into compliance. failure to timely respond to a warning letter or notice of noncompliance and to come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the shutdown of our production facilities and criminal and civil fines. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors, who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our business and stock price. the fda also regulates the promotion and advertising for our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, and that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims. if the fda determines that any of our promotional claims are not permissible, we may be required to revise our promotional claims or may be subject to enforcement actions. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nuclear regulatory commission, or nrc, clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive state regulation that varies from state to state. our manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive material also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. we are also subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, fraud and abuse laws and regulations such as physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. if we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with fda and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, it can result in a wide variety of actions, such as: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations, notices of non-compliance or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or the refusal of future requests for clearance or approval; seizures or recalls of our products; delays in purchasing decisions by customers; the inability to sell our products; and criminal prosecutions. 27 table of contents government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. we face significant costs in order to comply with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products. our operations and sales of our products outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country, and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. we are also subject to laws and regulations outside the united states applicable to manufacturers of radiation producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each case that are often comparable, if not more stringent, than regulation in the united states. our sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, environmental and product recycling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. we may be required to incur significant time and expense in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in the applicable country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, which would adversely affect our business. product defects may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical purposes; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products are used as part of an overall process that takes place within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance, or qa, procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers or others for damages resulting from the faulty or allegedly faulty design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support or the misuse of our products. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. additionally, errors or accidents in treatment may arise from the fact that our products operate in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized. in any accident case, we could be subject to legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. furthermore, adverse publicity regarding accidents or mistreatments involving radiation therapy could adversely impact our business by negatively affecting the reputation of radiation therapy in general, causing patients to question the efficacy of radiation therapy as a viable treatment for cancer and seek other modalities of treatment. 28 table of contents in addition, if a product we designed or manufactured were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. product recalls may also result in unexpected financial accruals under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america, or gaap that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. the adverse publicity resulting from any of these actions could cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. these recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could result in our incurring substantial costs and management time, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage in amounts we deem sufficient for our business and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omission liability. the product liability insurance policies that we maintain are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. in the future, these policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. in addition, the insurance coverage we have obtained may not be adequate. a successful material claim brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited would require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or which are able to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. many of the companies with which our oncology systems business compete have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. also, we expect that the rapid technological changes occurring in our markets will lead to the entry of new competitors into our markets, as well as our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new markets such as stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical and extracranial treatments. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to provide technologically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. our ability to compete in the radiation therapy market may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, because our products are generally sold on a total value to the customer basis. this may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making purchase decisions. in our sales of linear accelerator products for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, we compete primarily with siemens medical solutions, elekta ab, tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. we compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, computerized medical systems, inc., north american scientific, inc., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions in our software products, treatment simulation and verification products and accessories product lines. we also have begun to encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. in respect of our brachytherapy business, our primary competitor is nucletron b.v. for the service and maintenance business for our products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. the market for x-ray imaging components and subsystems is extremely competitive, with our competitors frequently having greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oems for our x-ray tubes, also manufacture x-ray tubes for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations that are naturally favored by their affiliated companies. as a result, 29 table of contents we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, shimadzu corporation, philips medical systems and ge, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us in both the oem business and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive, and we primarily compete against ge, trixell s.a.s., canon, inc. and hologic, inc. in our flat panel detector product line. in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers in this market, primarily outside of the united states, and our major competitor in this market is nuctech company limited. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial application is very small and highly fractured. there is no single major competitor in this market. in each of our business segments, existing competitors actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that are or may be perceived by customers to provide a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to or operate under the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we do, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. interoperability of our products with one another and their compatibility with third- party products is becoming increasingly important, and if we are unable to make our products interoperate with one another or compatible with widely used third-party products, sales of our products could decrease as radiation therapy becomes more and more complex, our customers are increasingly concerned about the interoperability and compatibility of the various products they use in providing treatment to patients. for example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products, treatment planning and information management software products are designed to interoperate with one another, and to be compatible with other widely used third-party radiation oncology products. obtaining and maintaining this interoperability and compatibility is costly and time-consuming. when third parties modify the design or functionality of their products, it can require us to modify our products to ensure compatibility. conversely, when we implement design improvements to our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to interoperability issues; for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement new varian technology because its third-party software network provider does not yet have a proper software interface available. in addition, our ability to obtain compatibility with third-party products can depend on the third parties providing us with adequate information regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may time their product changes, and their sharing of relevant information with us, to place us at a competitive disadvantage. 30 table of contents further, we could be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances for any modification of our products due to interoperability issues with the products of third parties. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may be unable to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. we may incur substantial costs in protecting our intellectual property, and if we are not able to do so, our competitive position would be harmed we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that any of the following will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors: our current patents; the claims allowed under our current patents; patents that will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications; or patents for technologies licensed to us. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary rights. we cannot assure you that these protections will prove adequate, that contractual agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by others. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we cannot assure you that unauthorized third parties will not use our trademarks. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products the industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. while we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such dispute. we also do not maintain insurance for such intellectual property infringement. therefore, if we are unsuccessful in defending any such infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our products, or may be required to enter into costly royalty 31 table of contents or license agreements. we cannot assure you that any licenses required would be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all. since we depend upon a limited group of suppliers, and in some cases sole source suppliers, for some product components, the loss of a supplier or any inability to supply these components could reduce our ability to manufacture products, cause material delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our products from a limited group of suppliers, or in some cases a single-source supplier. examples include the source wires for high-dose afterloaders; klystrons for linear accelerators; imaging panels; non-coated array sensors; coating for array sensors for the flat panel detectors; specialized integrated circuits for imaging subassemblies; and some targets, housings and glass bulbs for x-ray tubes. if we lose any of these suppliers, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of such product by the fda or other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these would likely cause material delays in delivery and could significantly increase costs for the affected product. although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against business interruption loss, we cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. additionally, some of these suppliers, including our single-source suppliers, supply components in rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of these suppliers or the inability of these suppliers to be able to meet increasing demand are also possibilities that could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product lines and higher costs of manufacturing for us as prices increase for these components and subassemblies due to shortage and greater demand. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. we sell our x-ray tubes to a limited number of oem customers, many of whom are also our competitors, and the loss or reduction in purchasing volume by one or more of these customers or consolidation among oems in the x-ray tube products market could reduce our sales of x-ray tube products we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of whom are also our competitors, for incorporation into diagnostic imaging systems. the loss of, or reduction in purchasing volume by, one or more of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our x-ray products business. there has been a consolidation of diagnostic imaging systems manufacturers over the past few years. the ongoing consolidation of customers, who purchase our x-ray tube products, including the consolidation of these customers into companies that already manufacture x-ray tubes, could result in less predictable and reduced sales of our x-ray tube products. in addition, our oem customers products, which also use our tubes, could lose market share to competitive products or technologies and, thereby, result in a reduction in our orders and revenues. we sell our linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators to oem customers who depend on customer delivery and acceptance schedules, which may cause orders for our security and inspection products to be unpredictable our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes. we generally sell our accelerators to oems who incorporate them into their inspection products, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government agencies, as well as 32 table of contents to commercial private parties. we believe growth in this business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. however, use of linear accelerator technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. orders for our security and inspections products may be unpredictable and the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly, as it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery and acceptance schedules. in addition, our sip business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, all of which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to political changes. these influences are inherently unpredictable, and may cause uncertainty and variability in the timing of orders. thus, orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly correlated to the level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or period. this unpredictability in orders, sales and revenue timing could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore our stock price. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our oncology systems products, we are often required to educate physicians about the use of a new treatment procedure such as imrt and igrt, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products. for example, the complexity and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of imrt and igrt and the required departures from their customary practices. we have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt and igrt generally and to encourage acceptance and adoption of our products for imrt and igrt. the timing of our competitors introduction of products and the market acceptance of their products may also make this educational process more difficult. we cannot be sure that any products we develop will gain any significant market acceptance and market share among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if the required regulatory approvals are obtained. we may not be able to maintain or expand our business if we are not able to retain, hire and integrate sufficiently qualified personnel our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel, technical personnel and sales and marketing staff. the loss of services of key employees could adversely affect our business. competition for key personnel can be intense. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because the competition for qualified personnel is intense, costs related to compensation could increase significantly if supply decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer as a manufacturer of products with a long production cycle, we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate demand adequately or to adjust our resources appropriately. if our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on our financial results and overall 33 table of contents business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our financial results. we may attempt to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technology or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, as a strategy to achieve quicker time to market for new products or technology, or to enter new markets, we may determine to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, we acquired sigma micro informatique conseil, a privately held french supplier of information management software for radiation oncology and medical oncology. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, the completion of an acquisition could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. furthermore, even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies or employees into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time-consuming and may strain our resources. in many instances, this will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at businesses that lack them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. consequently, we may not achieve anticipated growth or other benefits from an acquisition, which could harm our existing business. in addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party reimbursements for radiation oncology services may affect demand for our products the united states government has in the past, and may in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted such policies. these policies have included, and may in the future include, rationing of government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and imposing price controls on medical products and services providers. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, including those that may reduce reimbursement rates for our products or procedures using our products, could have a negative impact on 34 table of contents the demand for our products and services and our business. we are unable to predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, will be enacted in the united states or elsewhere, whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business. in addition, sales of some of our products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers for the treatment provided by those products from third-party healthcare payors, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs, private insurance plans, health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors often adopt medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment would likely extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. while we believe reimbursement policies and amounts are not a major factor in our customer purchasing decisions for radiotherapy products, a dramatic change in the availability and amount of reimbursement for treatments using our products could influence our customers decisions. any sharp cuts in overall reimbursement rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery or brachytherapy could increase uncertainty and reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. as a general matter, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for specific services or devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems, and there is an emerging private sector. we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly net orders, revenues, and gross margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses to our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and gross margins. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, and the timing of when individual orders are made and the revenues recognized could have an effect our quarterly results. timing of order placement from customers and their willingness to commit to purchase products are inherently difficult to predict or forecast. once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues and the timing include: delay in shipment due, for example, to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations by customers, natural disasters, port strikes or manufacturing difficulties; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; or a change in a customer financial condition or ability to obtain financing. our quarterly operating results may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors pricing or discount levels; changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products; 35 table of contents revenues becoming affected by seasonal influences; timing of revenue recognition; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; changes in the general economic conditions in the regions in which we do business; the possibility that unexpected levels of cancellations of orders or backlog may affect certain assumptions upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance; the impact of changing levels of sales to sole purchasers of certain of our x-ray products; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation; and accounting adjustments, such as those relating to accounting reserves for product recalls, share-based compensation expense as required under sfas 123(r) and changes in interpretation of accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. in fiscal year 2006, we saw an approximately one percentage point year-over-year decline in the gross margin for our oncology systems business, which decline principally resulted from (i) higher ramp-up costs and higher proportion of revenue associated with our new products for igrt; (ii) share-based compensation expense recorded in fiscal year 2006; and (iii) a continuing mix shift towards a higher proportion of international revenues, which typically have lower gross margins than revenues from north america. if results fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by the rules of gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our independent public accountants; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog results in such a manner. also, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues as the timing of future revenues depends on completion of customer site preparation and construction, installation scheduling, customer capital budgeting and financing, appropriate regulatory authorizations and other factors. unexpected levels of cancellation of individual orders will reduce the quarterly net orders results and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. our operating results for net orders and backlog in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. we prepare our financial statements to conform with gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board, american institute of certified public accountants, the securities and exchange commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. 36 table of contents we are required to recognize expense for share-based compensation related to stock options and employee stock purchases, and we cannot assure you that the expense that we are required to recognize accurately measures the value of our share-based payment awards, and the recognition of this expense could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline on october 1, 2005, we adopted sfas 123(r), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors including stock options and employee stock purchases related to the employee stock purchase plan and restricted stock based on fair values. as a result, our operating results for fiscal year 2006 contain, and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation related to stock options, employee stock purchases, restricted stock and deferred stock units. prior to fiscal year 2006, the only share-based compensation expense we recognized was for restricted stock. the application of sfas 123(r) requires the use of an option-pricing model, such as the black-scholes option-pricing model, to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. our stock options and the option component of the employee stock purchase plan shares have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and changes in the assumptions (such as expected term, stock price volatility and other variables) can materially affect the fair value estimates. therefore, although we determine the fair value of stock options and the option component of the employee stock purchase plan shares in accordance with sfas 123(r) and sab 107, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of this fair value, and we cannot assure you that the resulting expense that we are required to recognize accurately measures that value. as a result of the adoption of sfas 123(r), our earnings for fiscal year 2006 were lower than they would have been had we not been required to adopt sfas 123(r). this will continue to be the case for future periods. we cannot predict the effect that expensing share-based payments will have on the trading price of our common stock. the nature of our business exposes us to environmental claims, cleanup costs, or expenses, which could cause us to pay significant amounts we are subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials; these laws may create increased costs for some of our operations. although we follow procedures that we consider appropriate under existing regulations, these procedures can be costly and we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these hazardous materials; in the event of such an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. we do not maintain insurance for clean up costs or third-party claims resulting from environmental contamination which could occur in the future. we do, however, maintain insurance policies that may provide coverage for cleanup costs or third-party claims resulting from some historical occurrences of environmental contamination although this insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover these costs or claims. we could also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to comply with future changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or new laws and regulations. for example, several countries, including many in the european union, or eu, are requiring medical equipment manufacturers to bear some or all of the cost of product disposal at the end of the products useful life, thus creating increased costs for our operations. the eu has also adopted a directive that may require the adoption of restrictions on the use of some hazardous substances in certain of our products sold in the eu. this 37 table of contents directive could create increased costs for our operations. all of these costs, and any future violations or liability under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the effect of terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases may negatively affect sales and hinder our operations concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and avian influenza, especially in our major markets of north america or europe, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. as a strategy to utilize our available cash to better assist our sales efforts, we offer extended payment terms, which may potentially result in higher dso and greater payment defaults in light of the relatively low interest rates on short-term investments and in order to better utilize our strong cash position in a manner to better assist sales of our products, we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. during fiscal year 2006, revenues earned from customer contracts with longer or extended payment terms amounted to approximately 2% of total oncology systems revenues. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, we cannot assure you that the financial positions of these customers will not change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. in such an event, we may experience an increase in payment defaults in our accounts receivable, which will affect our net earnings. also, longer or extended payment terms will likely result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business we conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance. this coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster affecting our facilities could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and result in large expenses. in addition, our facilities, particularly those located in the western states of the united states, may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. in addition, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. our stockholder rights plan and provisions of our certificate of incorporation may discourage a take-over and therefore limit the price of our common stock we have a stockholder rights plan that, under specific circumstances, would significantly dilute the equity interest in our company of a person (or persons) seeking to acquire control of our company without the prior approval of our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation also includes provisions that may make an acquisition of control of our company without the approval of our board of directors more difficult. this stockholder rights plan and provisions in our certificate of incorporation may discourage take-over attempts and limit the price of our common stock. 38 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to two primary types of market risks: foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia and australia. we have significant transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain financial exposures through a program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and typically hedge many of these firmly committed foreign currency denominated sales orders. these firmly committed foreign currency sales orders, excluding the amounts relating to the products made outside of the united states, are hedged with forward exchange contracts. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward exchange contracts range from one to twelve months in original maturity. as of september 29, 2006, we did not have any forward exchange contracts with an original maturity greater than twelve months. as international deliveries may extend beyond twelve months, we may hedge beyond twelve months in the future. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into monthly foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward exchange contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward exchange contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates 67 table of contents would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values of sold and purchased forward exchange contracts for both hedges of foreign currency denominated sales orders and balance sheet exposures from our subsidiaries outstanding at september 29, 2006 are as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased unrealized gain (loss) fair value australian dollar $ 26.2 $ 5.1 $ (0.2 ) $ (0.1 ) british pound 28.1 (0.9 ) (0.7 ) canadian dollar 8.2 (0.2 ) (0.1 ) danish krone 2.0 euro 289.8 7.1 (1.3 ) (0.9 ) japanese yen 49.9 0.9 0.5 0.7 new zealand dollar 2.7 norwegian krone 9.4 2.0 0.1 0.1 swedish krona 1.9 totals $ 416.2 $ 17.1 $ (2.0 ) $ (1.0 ) interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio. currently, our investment portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid short-term marketable securities. in the unlikely event that interest rates were to decrease substantially, we might reinvest a substantial portion of our investment portfolio at lower interest rates. we would consider additional debt obligations to support general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and acquisitions. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate in our investment portfolio or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the principal amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at september 29, 2006 totaled $366 million with a weighted average interest rate of 3.66% and an estimated average tax equivalent yield of 4.16%. the principal amount of marketable securities had an estimated average tax equivalent yield of 5.59% at september 29, 2006. all of our marketable securities at september 29, 2006 were in municipal bonds. our investment portfolio of marketable securities is classified as held-to-maturity (with the exception of our auction rate securities which are classified as available-for-sale), and any gains or losses relating to changes in interest rates would occur in the unlikely event of liquidation of all or part of the investment portfolio. our debt of $57.3 million at september 29, 2006 carried a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.88% with principal payments due in various installments over an eight-year period. 68 table of contents the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and long term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 272.5 $ $ $ $ $ $ 272.5 average interest rate 3.67 % 3.67 % marketable securities $ 93.6 $ $ $ $ $ $ 93.6 average interest rate 3.63 % 3.63 % liabilities: long term debt $ 7.9 $ 9.0 $ 8.0 $ 9.0 $ 5.5 $ 17.9 $ 57.3 average interest rate 6.90 % 6.84 % 6.90 % 6.85 % 6.80 % 6.92 % 6.88 % mandatorily redeemable instrument $ 12.1 $ $ $ $ $ $ 12.1 average interest rate 0.17 % 0.17 % the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (48% of which was held abroad at september 29, 2006 and could be subject to additional taxation if it was repatriated to the united states) approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the fair value of our debt is estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. under this method, the fair value of our debt was estimated to be $60.4 million at september 29, 2006. we determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. however, it requires considerable judgment in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. accordingly, the fair value estimate presented is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instrument could realize in a current market exchange. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 25 item 1b unresolved staff comments 47 item 2. properties 47 item 3. legal proceedings 47 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 47 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 48 item 6. selected financial data 50 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 52 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 80 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 128 item 9a. controls and procedures 128 item 9b other information 128 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 129 item 11. executive compensation 129 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 130 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 130 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 130 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 131 signatures 135 2 table of contents forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, or md&amp;a, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, which provides a safe harbor for statements about future events, products and future financial performance that are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and information currently available to the management of varian medical systems, inc. ( we, our or the company ). the outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results and the outcome or timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in these forward-looking statements due to the factors listed under risk factors, and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission, or sec. for this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook; market acceptance of or transition to new products or technology such as intensity modulated radiation therapy, image guided radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, brachytherapy, software, treatment techniques, proton therapy and advanced x-ray products; growth drivers; future orders, revenues, backlog, earnings or other financial results; and any statements using the terms believe, expect, expectation, anticipate, can, should, would, could, estimate, appear, based on, may, intended, potential, are emerging and possible or similar statements are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and the outcome and timing of certain events to differ materially from those projected or management current expectations. by making forward-looking statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us to, update or revise those statements because of new information, future events or otherwise. part i item 1. business general we, varian medical systems, inc., are a delaware corporation and were originally incorporated in 1948 as varian associates, inc. in 1999, we transferred our instruments business to varian, inc., or vi, a wholly owned subsidiary, and transferred our semiconductor equipment business to varian semiconductor equipment associates, inc., or vsea, a wholly owned subsidiary. we retained the medical systems business, principally the sales and service of oncology products and the sales of x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems. on april 2, 1999, we spun off vi and vsea, which resulted in a non-cash dividend to our stockholders and which we refer to as the spin-offs in this annual report on form 10-k. immediately after the spin-offs, we changed our name to varian medical systems, inc. we have been engaged in aspects of the medical systems business since 1959. an amended and restated distribution agreement dated as of january 14, 1999 and other associated agreements govern our ongoing relationships with vi and vsea. overview we are the world leader in the design, manufacture, sale and service of advanced equipment and software products for treating cancer with focused energy beams, or radiation. we also design, manufacture, sell and service high quality, cost-effective x-ray tubes for original equipment manufacturers, or oems; replacement x-ray tubes; flat panel digital image detectors for filmless x-rays (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors) for medical, dental, veterinary, scientific and industrial applications; linear accelerators, image detectors, image processing software and image detection systems for security and inspection purposes; proton therapy systems for cancer treatment; and scientific instruments used in fundamental and applied physics research. oncology systems, which is our largest business segment, designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer with radiation, including linear accelerators, treatment simulation and verification products, information management and treatment planning 3 table of contents software, advanced brachytherapy products and software and other sophisticated accessory products and services. our products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer the advanced treatment processes of intensity modulated radiation therapy, or imrt, image guided radiation therapy, or igrt, and stereotactic radiotherapy, as well as to treat patients using brachytherapy techniques, which involve radiation treatment of tumors with implanted radioactive sources. our products are also used by neurosurgeons to perform stereotactic radiosurgery. our customers include comprehensive cancer treatment clinics, university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. x-ray products, which is our other business segment, designs, manufactures and sells x-ray imaging components and subsystems, namely: (i) x-ray tubes for use in a range of applications including computed tomography, or ct, scanning, radioscopic/fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications; and (ii) flat panel detectors for digital x-ray image capture, which is an alternative to image intensifier tubes for fluoroscopy and x-ray film for radiography. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are sold to large imaging system oems that incorporate these x-ray imaging components and subsystems into their medical diagnostic imaging systems and industrial imaging systems. our x-ray tubes are also sold directly to end-users for replacement purposes. our flat panel detectors are also being incorporated into next generation imaging equipment, including equipment for igrt and for dental ct scanning and veterinary x-ray imaging. we have three other businesses that we report together under the other category. our security and inspection products, or sip, business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. we generally sell our linatron x-ray accelerators to oems who incorporate our accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government and military agencies, as well as to commercial private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. with the acquisition of bio-imaging research, inc., or bir, in may 2007, we have added detectors, imaging processing software and image detection systems to our sip product portfolio. in january 2007, we completed the acquisition of accel instruments gmbh, or accel, a privately-held supplier of proton therapy systems for cancer treatment and scientific research instruments, which we also report under the other category. the proton therapy business line develops, designs, manufactures and integrates products and systems for delivering proton therapy, a form of radiation therapy using proton beams, for certain types of cancers, while the research instruments business line develops, manufactures and services highly customized scientific instrument components and systems for fundamental and applied physics research. our ginzton technology center, or gtc, develops technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital x-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, improved x-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. in addition, we are developing technologies and products that promise to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy. our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the factors described in risk factors in conjunction with the description of our business set forth below and the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. radiation therapy and the cancer-care market radiation therapy, which is also referred to as radiotherapy, is the use of certain types of focused energy, or radiation, to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors, with the goal of damaging as many cancer cells as 4 table of contents possible, while limiting harm to nearby healthy tissue. radiation therapy is commonly used either alone or in combination with surgery or chemotherapy. an important advantage of radiation therapy is that the radiation acts with some selectivity on cancer cells. when a cell absorbs radiation, the radiation affects the cell genetic structure and inhibits its replication, leading to its gradual death. cancerous cells must replicate in order to cause disease; therefore the radiation they absorb can disproportionately damage them. currently, the most common type of radiotherapy uses x-rays delivered by external beams, also sometimes referred to as external beam radiotherapy, and is administered using linear accelerators. linear accelerators are conventionally used for multiple, or fractionated, treatments of a tumor in up to 50 radiation sessions. imrt is an advanced form of radiation therapy in which the intensity and angle of the radiation beams from a linear accelerator are varied, or modulated, across the target area of the patient being treated. this conforms the radiation beams more closely to the shape and contours of the tumor and allows doctors to deliver higher doses of radiation to tumors, while limiting the amount of radiation directed at nearby healthy tissue. in this way, clinicians can design and deliver an individualized treatment plan for each patient, targeting the patient tumor as closely as possible. imrt can be used to treat head and neck, breast, prostate, pancreatic, lung, liver, gynecological and central nervous system cancers. imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment for cancer and more clinics every year, from university hospitals to local community clinics, continue to adopt imrt for their treatments. we are a leading provider of products to enable imrt treatment of cancer. igrt is an advanced radiation therapy technology complementing imrt to further enhance radiation therapy treatments. while imrt helps doctors shape and conform the radiation beam to that of the tumor, igrt goes to the next step of allowing doctors to accommodate for tumor movement and avoid more healthy tissue that otherwise would be irradiated when a tumor moves or shrinks. this enables the delivery of higher doses of radiation to tumors in a more effective manner, while sparing more of the surrounding healthy tissue. igrt technologies compensate for daily changes and movements in tumors and enable dynamic, real-time visualization and precise treatment of small, moving and changing tumors with greater intensity and accuracy. with this greater precision offered by igrt, clinics and hospitals are potentially able to improve outcomes by concentrating even higher doses of radiation at the tumors. stereotactic radiosurgery (also referred to as image-guided radiosurgery) is an advanced radiation treatment procedure that employs linear accelerators and igrt technology to eradicate cancerous, non-cancerous and functional lesions anywhere in the body, by delivering a few very precisely placed, high dose beams of radiation. customers are recognizing igrt and stereotactic radiosurgery as significant enhancements in curative radiation therapy. we believe treatments using igrt technology are becoming accepted as a standard of care for radiation therapy and radiosurgery, with north america ahead of international regions in the timing of igrt adoption. our oncology systems net orders growth in the north american and international regions reflects increased demand for our products that enable igrt. nearly all of our high energy accelerators ordered in north america and over 70% of high energy accelerators ordered worldwide during fiscal year 2007 were ordered with our on-board imager product, or obi, which enables igrt. as of september 28, 2007, we had more than 630 installations of obi on our high-energy and trilogy accelerators, either completed or in progress. we continue to believe that demand for our products that enable igrt will remain strong as north america has adopted igrt technology as a standard of care for radiation therapy and radiosurgery and the international regions have shown increased demand for igrt products. also, since late fiscal year 2006, our international regions have experienced a slowdown in demand for radiotherapy capital equipment for imrt, after several years of strong international growth driven by the rapid adoption of imrt technology. we believe regional fluctuations in demand are consistent with a historical pattern where the international regions and north america region have different cycles of demand and technology adoption. we are, however, seeing a faster adoption rate among the technology early 5 table of contents adopters for igrt as compared to imrt, which may lead to more compressed growth phase cycles. also, we are seeing greater variability in the length of the customer purchasing cycle, which we believe results from a more complex decision making process associated with large dollar value of transactions for more sophisticated igrt and surgical equipment. this also may result in greater fluctuation in our oncology systems net orders and revenue results. as an alternative to the external beam radiation therapy methods described above, brachytherapy treatments involve the insertion of radioactive seeds, wires or ribbons directly into a tumor or into a body cavity close to the cancerous area. these modalities, unlike external beam radiation therapy, do not require the radiation to pass through surrounding healthy tissue in order to reach the tumor and the doctor can give a higher total dose of radiation in a shorter time. brachytherapy is often used for cancers of the head and neck, breast, uterus, thyroid, cervix and prostate. radiation therapy has most typically employed ionizing radiation beams comprised of x-rays, or photons, which are the types of beam generated by linear accelerators. proton therapy uses beams of protons. the advantage of proton therapy is that a proton beam signature energy distribution curve, also known as the bragg peak, allows greater accuracy in targeting tumor cells with less dose to nearby healthy tissue. this makes proton therapy a preferred option for treating certain kinds of cancers, particularly tumors near the optic nerve and cancers in pediatric cases. proton therapy, at present, is still largely in the clinical research phases, with technology undergoing rapid development, and it is not yet a widely accepted treatment modality. we are entering the proton therapy market because we believe we can leverage our sophisticated technology in traditional radiation therapy into proton therapy, improving clinical utility for existing clinical applications and expanding the use of proton therapy into a broader array of cancer types. even though we currently manage this business under our other category as one of our emerging business lines at this early stage, we believe that proton therapy will evolve in the market to be considered one of several forms of accepted radiation therapy treatment modalities. the radiation oncology market is growing globally and a number of factors are contributing to this expansion. annual cancer rates around the world are projected to increase by 50% to 15 million new cases in the year 2020, as indicated by the world cancer report issued by the international agency for research on cancer in the world health organization. according to the world cancer report, the predicted sharp increase in new cases will mainly be due to steadily aging populations in both developed and developing countries and also due to current trends in smoking prevalence and the growing adoption of unhealthy life styles. for example, the u.s. census report indicates that the population over 65 years of age in the united states is expected to increase by 41% to 48 million in 2015 from 34 million in 2000. the u.s. chart data from the national cancer institute surveillance, epidemiology, and end results program also indicates that the number of cases diagnosed annually could double in the united states to 2.6 million by 2050. the rise in cancer cases, together with the increase in sophistication of new treatment processes, have created demand for more automated products that can be integrated into clinically practical systems to make treatments more rapid and cost effective. technology advances leading to improvements in patient care, the availability of more advanced, automated and efficient clinical tools in radiation therapy and the advent of more precise forms of radiotherapy treatment, such as imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, brachytherapy and, ultimately, proton therapy, should drive the demand for our radiation therapy products and services, in particular those of our oncology systems segment, as patients seek more effective treatments. in general, we have experienced historical cycles where the north american region tends to adopt the newest technologies at a faster rate than the international regions. the international markets in particular are under-equipped with radiation therapy systems to address the growing cancer incidence. cancer patients in many foreign countries must frequently endure long waits for radiotherapy treatment. many of these countries are expanding and upgrading their radiotherapy services to care for their cancer patients. the relatively weak u.s. dollar has also effectively made pricing 6 table of contents more competitive for u.s.-based companies such as ours. shortages of radiotherapy equipment in the international markets and, to a lesser extent, the weak u.s. dollar, represent additional drivers for continued growth in the international markets. products oncology systems our oncology systems business segment is the leading provider of advanced products and software for radiation treatment of cancer. the radiotherapy process typically consists of examining the patient, planning the therapeutic approach, simulating and verifying the treatment plan, providing quality assurance for all the devices involved in the treatment process and the treatment plan itself, delivering treatment, verifying that the treatments were delivered correctly, recording the history and results of treatment and obtaining reimbursement for the radiotherapy services provided. we design, manufacture, sell and service products that help perform most of these tasks, namely linear accelerators, treatment simulators and verification products, information management and treatment planning software and other sophisticated accessory products and services for conventional radiation therapy, imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiotherapy and stereotactic radiosurgery. the focus of our oncology systems business is addressing the key concerns of the market for advanced cancer care systems, including the continuing demand for enhanced capabilities and quality of radiation therapy treatments and improved efficiency, precision, cost-effectiveness and ease of delivery of these treatments. a core element of our business strategy is to provide our customers with highly versatile, clinically proven products that are interoperable and can be configured and integrated into automated systems that combine greater precision and greater cost effectiveness and that enhance the entire process of treating a patient. our products and accessories for imrt and igrt allow clinicians to track and treat tumors using shaped beams very precisely, thereby targeting the tumor as closely as possible and allowing the delivery of higher doses of radiation to the tumor, while limiting exposure of nearby healthy tissue. with our treatment planning, verification and information management software products, treatment plans, patient treatment data and images are recorded and stored in a single database shared by each of our products, which enables effective communication among products. additionally, the precision and versatility of our products and technology makes possible the use of radiation therapy to treat metastatic lesions, thereby allowing for multiple medical specialties radiation oncology, neurosurgery, imaging and medical oncology to share equipment, resources and information in a more cost-effective manner. furthermore, the ability of our products and technology to interoperate with each other and to interconnect into automated systems allows doctors to schedule and treat more patients within a set time period, which adds to the cost-effectiveness of our products and technology. linear accelerators are the core device for delivering conventional radiation therapy, imrt and igrt treatment procedures and we produce versions of these devices to suit various facility requirements and treatment needs. our clinac &reg; medical linear accelerators are used to treat cancer by producing therapeutic electrons and x-ray beams that target tumors and other abnormalities in a patient. the clinac ix series is the latest in this product line and these accelerators are designed to facilitate more streamlined and advanced treatment processes including imrt and igrt. we also produce the trilogy linear accelerator, designed to be a very versatile, cost-effective, ultra-precise radiotherapy treatment product with a faster dose delivery rate and smaller isocenter compared to our clinac ix. trilogy was developed with igrt and stereotactic radiotherapy in mind, but is also capable of delivering conventional, 3d conformal radiotherapy and imrt. additionally, trilogy has the precision necessary to deliver stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments and, in fact, is the accelerator that is at the core of the novalis tx product offering, a new combination of products from brainlab ag, or brainlab, and us targeted to neurosurgeons. we also manufacture and market accessory products for the linear accelerator that enhance the capabilities and efficiency of the linear accelerator in delivering radiotherapy treatments and which allow 7 table of contents for delivery of advanced treatments such as imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiotherapy and stereotactic radiosurgery. our millennium series of multi-leaf collimators and high definition 120, or hd 120, multi-leaf collimator are accessory devices that are used with a linear accelerator to define the size, shape and intensity of the radiation beams generated by the linear accelerator. portalvision , our electronic portal-imager, is used to verify a patient treatment position while on the treatment couch, which is critical for accurate delivery of radiotherapy treatments. in addition, portalvision allows for streamlined quality assurance of individual treatment plans. we also offer an innovative real-time patient position monitoring product, the rpm respiratory gating system, which allows the linear accelerator to be synchronized with patient breathing to help compensate for tumor motion during the course of treatment. our accessory products designed specifically for enabling igrt include our obi and a cone-beam computerized tomography product, or cbct, which is used with obi. the obi is a hardware accessory to the linear accelerator that allows dynamic, real-time imaging of tumors while the patient is on the treatment couch. cbct is an imaging software accessory that works with the obi to allow patient positioning based on soft-tissue anatomy. using sophisticated image analysis tools, cbct allows comparison of the cbct scan with a reference ct scan taken previously to determine how the treatment couch should be moved to fine-tune the patient treatment setup for accuracy prior to delivery of the radiation. therefore, to deliver the most advanced forms of igrt, a clinac ix or trilogy accelerator would typically also have an obi, cbct, portalvision and other igrt-related hardware and software as accessories. we also have in our product portfolio the sonarray ultrasound imaging device for patient positioning and stereotactic treatment planning software for use in developing treatment plans for stereotactic radiosurgery. our treatment planning and information management software products enhance and enable the delivery of advanced radiation therapy treatments, from the initial treatment planning and plan quality assurance verification to the post-treatment recording of treatment and image data and storing of patient information. prior to any treatment, particularly imrt, igrt and stereotactic radiosurgery, physicians must plan the course of radiation delivery for the patient. to assist physicians with developing these treatment delivery plans, we offer a range of treatment planning products. our eclipse treatment planning system provides doctors with 3d image viewing, treatment simulation, radiation dosage calculation and verification and other tools for generating treatment delivery plans for the patient. the eclipse software utilizes a sophisticated technique known as inverse planning to enable the physicians to rapidly develop optimal treatment plans based on a desired radiation dose outcome to the tumor and surrounding tissue. our argus line of software products allows the management and verification of quality control data. finally, our aria oncology information management system, or aria, is the latest information management software system; it integrates the features of our previous products, varis &reg; vision and varis medoncology, with new enhancements to form a more comprehensive real-time information management system and database. aria enables users to operate filmless and paperless cancer clinics. aria also records and verifies radiotherapy treatment procedures carried out on the linear accelerator, performs patient charting and manages patient information and patient image data. in addition, aria records and stores patient data relating to chemotherapy treatment procedures, which may be prescribed by a physician in addition to radiation therapy. therefore, clinics have the ability to manage treatment and patient information across radiation oncology and medical oncology procedures. our treatment simulators enable physicians to simulate radiation therapy treatments prior to treatment delivery. in addition to our portalvision, we also manufacture and sell acuity , a simulator which uses advanced amorphous silicon imaging technology and which has been designed to facilitate imrt treatments both by integrating simulation more closely with treatment planning and by helping physicians better address tumor motions caused by breathing. in 2005, we launched the dynamic adaptive radiotherapy initiative, or dart, in order to promote better clinical practices through usage of imaging, planning and delivery of radiation therapy in order to 8 table of contents adjust for patient motion, breathing, and anatomical and physiological changes that occur during the course of therapy. product enhancements that allow for cost-efficient decision support, as well as data collection and analysis for the development of more broadly shared treatment standards, will be key in our dart initiative. we expect that the guiding principles of dart will contribute to continuing growth for the oncology systems business. in fiscal year 2008, we announced rapidarc technology for volumetric arc radiotherapy technology. rapidarc uses a sophisticated algorithm that makes it possible for one of our linear accelerators to deliver a complete intensity-modulated radiation treatment in a single revolution of the radiation treatment beam around the patient. rapidarc allows doctors to vary three parameters simultaneously the speed of rotation, the beam shaping aperture, and the dose delivery rate to create finely-shaped imrt dose distributions that more closely match the size and shape of the tumor while sparing healthy tissues. as of november 2007, 510(k) clearance by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, for rapidarc was pending and so rapidarc is not yet available for sale in the united states. we believe technology advances such as rapidarc may drive demand for our linear accelerators and other related accessory products. in addition to offering our own suite of equipment and software products for planning and delivering radiation therapy treatments, we have partnered with selected leaders in certain segments of the radiation therapy and radiosurgery market. we have a relationship with general electric medical systems, or ge, in north america with which we have established a see and treat cancer care program for radiation therapy. through see and treat cancer care, we can offer radiation oncology facilities an interoperable suite of cancer treatment tools that combines our comprehensive set of radiation therapy products with ge advanced diagnostic imaging systems. we have also a strategic relationship with brainlab for the sale and marketing of the novalis tx, which is a combination of varian and brainlab products targeted to neurosurgeons for radiosurgery. novalis tx is a radiosurgical device that integrates our trilogy tx linear accelerator and our hd 120 multi-leaf collimator and will work with a variety of products, including our obi, eclipse treatment planning system and aria information management software, as well as other products offered by brainlab. our brachytherapy business designs, manufactures, sells and services advanced brachytherapy products, including treatment planning software, high dose rate products, the varisource and gammamed afterloaders, the brachyvision treatment planning system, applicators and accessories. brachytherapy also develops and markets the variseed treatment planning system for permanent prostate seed implants. revenues from our oncology systems business segment represented 81% of total revenues for fiscal year 2007 and 84% for each of fiscal years 2006 and 2005. our oncology systems business segment revenues also include service revenues. see customer services and support. for a discussion of oncology systems business segment financial information, see note 15 segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. x-ray products our x-ray products business segment is a world leader in designing and manufacturing components and subsystems for x-ray imaging, including x-ray-generating tubes and flat panel detectors. x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are key components of x-ray imaging systems. we sell our products to oems for new system configurations and replacement x-ray tubes for installed systems. we conduct an active research and development program to focus on new technology and applications in both the medical and industrial x-ray imaging markets. we manufacture x-ray tubes for four primary medical diagnostic radiology applications: ct scanners, radiographic/fluoroscopic imaging, special procedures, and mammography. we also offer a large line of industrial x-ray tubes, which consist of analytical x-ray tubes used for x-ray fluorescence and 9 table of contents diffraction, as well as tubes used for non-destructive imaging and gauging and airport baggage inspection systems. our flat panel detectors, which are based on amorphous silicon imaging technologies, have found broad application as an alternative to image intensifier tubes or x-ray film. these flat panel detectors are being incorporated into next generation filmless medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial inspection imaging systems and also serve as a key component of our obi, which helps enable igrt. they are also being incorporated into dental ct scanning and veterinary x-ray imaging systems. we believe that imaging equipment based on amorphous silicon technologies is more stable and reliable, needs fewer adjustments and suffers less degradation over time than image intensifier tubes, and will be more cost effective over time than x-ray film. the fundamental growth driver of this business segment is the on-going success of key oems that incorporate our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. the sales of high-end anode grounded x-ray tubes and sales of our flat panel detector products are the key contributors for revenues growth for x-ray products. revenues from x-ray products represented 15% of total revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 14% in each of fiscal years 2006 and 2005. for a discussion of the x-ray products business segment financial information, see note 15, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. other through our sip business, we manufacture, sell and service linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening, border protection and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. sip has developed a new type of dual energy accelerator, the linatron m-i, which can aid in automatically detecting and alerting operators when high-density nuclear materials associated with dirty bombs or weapons of mass destruction are present during cargo screening and can perform non-intrusive inspection of cargo containers. in addition, we have developed the new linatron k-15 high-energy accelerator for inspection of very large, dense objects, including, for example, the solid rocket boosters on nasa space shuttle. generally, we sell our linatron x-ray accelerators to oems who incorporate them into their inspection systems. the oems then sell their systems to customs agencies and other government agencies for examination of imports and cross-border vehicles and vessels; military for various inspection applications; and commercial private parties for nondestructive examination of objects such as air and sea cargo containers, and transport vehicles in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. in may 2007, we acquired bir, a privately-held supplier of x-ray imaging detection products for security and inspection, which operates under sip. the acquisition of bir enables us to offer x-ray imaging detectors, image processing software and image detection systems to our security and inspection customers in addition to our existing product line. the sip products we delivered during fiscal year 2007 are being primarily used in overseas ports and borders to screen for contraband, weapons, stowaways, narcotics and explosives, as well as for manifest verification. our sip products and technology can also be employed for use in the sterilization of food and medical products. we believe growth in the sip business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. as a result, this business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities; these activities depend upon government budgets and appropriations and are subject to political change. our accel proton therapy business develops, designs, manufactures and integrates proton therapy systems for the treatment of certain types of cancer. a typical system would consist of a high energy superconducting isochronus cyclotron, which generates the proton treatment beam and is located in its own shielded room, a beam transport system that carries the proton beams from the cyclotron to the patient treatment rooms, and patient treatment rooms that incorporate very large gantries that deliver 10 table of contents the radiation beam such that a portion of the room actually rotates around the patient treatment couch. a typical system would also include sophisticated software for the control and delivery of the treatment beams and gantries. therefore, proton therapy centers are very large construction projects; they can take up to three years to construct and deliver, with the cost of the system in excess of $60 million for a multiple-gantry system (compared to $2 million to $3 million for a linear accelerator-based system) and total cost for a center approaching $100 million. proton therapy, as a clinical treatment modality, is still in its infancy and the technology is still rapidly developing. we see a high level of interest in the marketplace worldwide for this type of technology. we hope to leverage our experience in traditional radiation therapy to help advance proton therapy, improving clinical utility for existing clinical applications of proton therapy and expanding the use of proton therapy into a broader array of cancer types. we believe that growth in this business will initially develop in the major metropolitan areas in the united states and abroad, and that this market is driven by institutions that wish to expand their clinical offerings and increase their profiles in their respective communities. in order to realize the full potential of the accel business, we need to invest substantial resources to properly commercialize accel advanced proton technology and to build this new business. in fact, we do not expect to start generating significant proton therapy systems revenues until after fiscal year 2009. the research instruments division of accel develops, manufactures and services highly customized components and systems primarily for national research laboratories worldwide for fundamental and applied physics. this market is driven by a few large projects in the billion-dollar range and an increasing number of national accelerator projects ranging from one to five hundred million dollars. orders and revenues for our proton therapy products, as well as for our accel research instruments business, may be affected by a number of factors. proton therapy facilities are relatively large scale construction projects and require significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. the customers decision-making cycle for purchasing a proton therapy project is very long and orders for proton therapy systems generally include many contingencies, which need to be resolved before we book an order. therefore, we do not expect to book any orders for proton therapy systems in the short term. the accel research instruments business is driven by a few large projects in the billion-dollar range and an increasing number of national accelerator projects ranging from one to five hundred million dollars. as the most research projects in this market are publicly funded, decisions on new projects or project upgrades are subject to governmental and political factors. while it appears that there is relatively steady growth in the number and volume of these research projects worldwide, the timing of these research projects may vary significantly. therefore, accel engineering and manufacturing resources will fluctuate over time as they adapt to the resource requirements of these research projects. therefore, orders and revenues for the accel business may be unpredictable and fluctuate. in addition, we expect the accel business to continue to be dilutive to our net earnings per diluted share in fiscal year 2008. the ginzton technology center, our research facility, identifies and addresses new and potential markets. through gtc, we are developing technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital x-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging and improved x-ray sources. in addition, we are developing technologies and products that promise to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy. in the area of industrial security, gtc is engaged in a joint research project with the palo alto research center, a subsidiary of xerox corporation, to develop technology for security and cargo screening applications at airports and seaports under a grant from the united states department of commerce. these efforts are designed to develop new products and technologies for our future businesses. sip, accel and gtc report their results from operations as part of the other category. combined revenues from these operations represented 4% of total revenues in fiscal year 2007 and 2% of total 11 table of contents revenues in each of fiscal years 2006 and 2005. for a discussion of segment financial information, see note 15 segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. customer services and support we maintain service centers in milpitas, california; las vegas, nevada; des plaines, illinois; clark, new jersey; marietta, georgia; richardson, texas; corona, california; buc, france; crawley, uk; zug, switzerland; copenhagen, denmark; brussels, belgium; houten, the netherlands; madrid, spain; milan, italy; manama, bahrain; mumbai, india; tokyo and osaka, japan; beijing, shanghai and hong kong, china; kuala lumpur, malaysia; singapore; bangkok, thailand; belrose, australia; and sao paulo, brazil; as well as field service personnel throughout the world for oncology systems customer support services. key logistics and education operations are located in las vegas, nevada. our network of service engineers and customer support specialists provide installation, warranty, repair, training and support services, and professional services. we generate service revenues by providing services to customers on a time-and-materials basis and through comprehensive service contracts and software support contracts. most of the field service engineers are our employees, but in a few foreign countries, our products are serviced by employees of dealers and/or agents in those countries. customers can access our extensive service network by calling any of our service centers. we warrant most of our oncology systems products for parts and labor for twelve months. we offer a variety of post-warranty equipment service agreements and software support agreements that permit customers to contract for the level of equipment maintenance and/or software support they require. we believe customer service and support are an integral part of our oncology systems competitive strategy. service contract gross margin improved in fiscal year 2007. growth drivers for our service revenues include the increased sophistication of our products (particularly software products, which generate software maintenance contracts) and growth in the installed base of our products. we also believe superior service capability, availability and responsiveness play an important role in marketing and selling medical products and systems, particularly as the technological sophistication of the products increases. nevertheless, many of our customers use their own internal service organizations and/or independent service organizations to service equipment after the warranty period expires. therefore, we cannot assure full conversion to maintenance or service contracts after this time. we warrant all of our x-ray tubes and flat panel detector products in our x-ray products business segment. the warranty period is generally for twelve months. for some x-ray tube products, the warranty period is based on the number of times the product is used. we provide technical advice and consultation for x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems products to major oem customers from our offices in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; tokyo, japan; and willich, germany. our applications specialists and engineers make recommendations to meet the customer technical requirements within the customer budgetary constraints. we often develop specifications for a unique product, which will be designed and manufactured to meet a specific customer requirements. we also maintain a technical customer support group in charleston, south carolina to meet the technical support requirements of independent tube installers that use our x-ray tube products. we warrant all of our linatrons and imaging products sold by our sip business. the warranty period is generally for twelve months. we provide technical support and service for our linatrons and imaging products to major oem customers from our offices in las vegas, nevada; lincolnshire, illinois; and buc, france. we utilize the oncology systems customer support services organization in japan, asia, australia and south america. marketing and sales we employ a combination of direct sales forces and independent distributors or resellers in north america, europe, australia and major parts of asia and latin america for the marketing and sales of 12 table of contents our products worldwide. we did not have a single customer in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 that represented 10% or more of our total revenues. for our oncology systems segment, we use our direct sales forces to make all of our north american sales and a combination of direct sales forces and independent distributors for the international regions. we sell our oncology systems products primarily to comprehensive cancer treatment clinics, university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. as a result of on-going technological development, these clinics, hospitals, institutes, agencies and doctors offices replace equipment and upgrade treatment capability. sales cycles for our external beam radiation therapy products typically can be quite lengthy since many of our products are considered capital equipment and are affected by budgeting cycles of hospitals, clinics, institutes, agencies and doctors offices, which frequently fix capital budgets one or more years in advance. also, as newly introduced products and international revenues comprise a greater portion of our orders and shipments, the average time period within which orders convert into revenues could lengthen, our margins may fall and our deferred revenues may increase. in addition, our receivables may take longer to collect. reimbursement rates in the united states usually support a return on investment for the purchase of a new system with imrt and igrt capabilities in less than 18 months. however, we believe that reimbursements for existing and new treatment processes play a relatively minor role in the market for new external beam radiotherapy equipment and that the prospect of better clinical outcomes continues to be a primary growth driver for new equipment purchases. international reimbursement rates for radiation therapy tend to be low in national health systems, yet international markets continue to invest in better treatment capability, albeit often after it has been proven in the north american region or in other leading research centers worldwide. total oncology systems revenues, including service revenues were $1.4 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we divide our market segments for oncology systems revenues into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 52%, 32%, 11% and 5%, respectively of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2007; 53%, 30%, 11% and 6%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2006 and 56%, 30%, 10% and 4% respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2005. our x-ray products segment employs a combination of direct sales force and independent distributors for sales in all of its regions and sells a high proportion of its products, including x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors, to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their imaging systems. we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of x-ray products revenues in the foreseeable future. we supply x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems, ge healthcare, sound technologies, inc. and imaging sciences international, inc. these oems for our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors represented 63%, 69% and 68% of our total x-ray products segment revenues during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, with the remaining revenues coming from a large number of small oems and independent services companies. total revenues for our x-ray products segment were $258 million, $228 million and $195 million for fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we divide our market segments for x-ray products revenues by region into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 37%, 14%, 46% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2007; 38%, 13%, 46% and 3%respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2006 and 38%, 14%, 45% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2005. our sip business utilizes a combination of a direct sales force and independent distributors for sales and sells a high proportion of its products, including linatron linear accelerators and detector arrays to a limited number of oem that incorporate our products into their systems. we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of sip revenues in the 13 table of contents foreseeable future. we supply linatron linear accelerators and detector products to oems such as american science &amp; engineering, inc., l-3 communications, rapiscan systems, science applications international corporation and smiths detection. sip also supplies linatron linear accelerators and detectors to a wide variety of customers in the non-destructive testing field, or ndt, in the united states and to foreign governments, as well as in industries such as automotive, aerospace, casting and other fields. in the accel proton therapy system business, we utilize direct sales specialist representatives who collaborate with our oncology systems sales group on projects globally. potential customers are government-sponsored hospitals and research institutions and research universities, which typically purchase product through public tenders, and, to a lesser extent, private hospitals and clinics. we believe that growth in this business will initially develop in the major metropolitan areas in the united states and abroad, driven by institutions that wish to expand their clinical offerings and increase their profile in their respective communities. due to the relatively large scale, the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. therefore, customer decision cycle is very long and it may take several years to receive an order. also some competitors in this market may have access to government support, may not be as focused on maintaining profitability and/or may be willing to forsake profitability for market share. therefore, orders and revenues for our proton therapy products may be unpredictable. accel research instruments business does not maintain a direct sales force and orders are mostly obtained through responses to public tenders by our engineers. customers for this business are primarily government and government-sponsored research institutions such as cern, the paul scherer institute in switzerland, fermi laboratory in the united states and others. while it appears that there is relatively steady growth in the number and volume of these research projects worldwide, the timing of these research projects vary significantly. therefore, accel engineering and manufacturing resources will fluctuate over time as they adapt to the resource requirements of these research projects. competition the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. we compete with companies worldwide. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. our smaller competitors could be acquired by companies with greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. some of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues. furthermore, we believe that rapid technological changes occurring in our markets will lead to the entry of new competitors, as well as our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new market segments such as stereotactic radiosurgery. for example, we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) tighter interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) simplifying the usability of our software products and (iii) lowering setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput, while maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers the flexibility to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. we anticipate that these efforts will increase acceptance and adoption of imrt and igrt and will foster greater demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. conversely, one competitor is offering linear accelerator products that are closed-ended, dedicated-use systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the ability for customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products, or use the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. if we have misjudged 14 table of contents the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach while enabling greater interconnectivity, simplicity-of-use and lowering setup and treatment times or if we are unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance simplicity-of-use efforts and setup and treatment times, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our oncology systems customers equipment purchase considerations typically include: reliability, servicing, patient throughput, precision, price, payment terms, connectivity, clinical features, the ability to track patient referral, long-term relationship with customers and capabilities of customers existing equipment. we sell our products on a total value to the customer basis. we believe we compete favorably with our competitors based upon our strategy of providing a complete package of products and services in the field of radiation oncology and our continued commitment to global distribution and customer service, value-added manufacturing, technological leadership and new product innovation. we strive to provide technologically superior, clinically proven products for substantially all aspects of radiation therapy that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes that meet or exceed customer quality and service expectations. however, our ability to compete may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, since our products are generally sold on a total value to the customer basis. this may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making purchase decisions. therefore, the impact of any such factors could have a negative effect on our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. we are the leading provider of medical linear accelerators and related accessories. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with siemens medical solutions, elekta ab, tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, computerized medical systems, inc., north american scientific, inc., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. in respect of our brachytherapy operations, our primary competitor is nucletron b.v. for the service and maintenance business for our oncology systems products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. the market for x-ray tubes is extremely competitive. some of the major medical diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary customers for our x-ray tubes, also manufacture x-ray tubes for use in their own imaging systems products. while we believe we are one of the leading independent suppliers of x-ray tubes, we must compete with these in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems and ge healthcare, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. we incorporate our flat panel detectors into our equipment for igrt within our oncology systems and also sell to a number of oems, which incorporate our flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. our amorphous silicon based flat panel detector technology competes with other detector technologies such as amorphous selenium, charge-coupled devices and variations of amorphous silicon scintillators. we believe that our product provides a competitive advantage due to lower product cost and better product quality and performance. our significant customers include toshiba corporation, sound technologies, inc. and imaging sciences international inc. we primarily compete against perkin-elmer, inc., trixell s.a.s., canon, inc. and hologic, inc. in our flat panel detector product line. 15 table of contents our sip products are sold to oems, who incorporate our accelerators into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government and military agencies, as well as to commercial private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we compete with other oem suppliers in the security and inspection market primarily outside of the united states, and our major competitor in this market is nuctech company limited. the market for our security and inspection products used for nondestructive testing in industrial application is very small and highly fractured. there is no single major competitor in this nondestructive testing market. the market for proton therapy products is still in the infancy stages but is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to complete the development of our commercial proton therapy system, lower our product costs, develop and provide technologically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. there are several competitors in the proton therapy market, some of which may have access to government support and/or may not be as focused on maintaining profitability and/or may be willing to forsake profitability for market share. in the proton therapy market, we compete principally with ion beam applications s.a., hitachi medical corporation, siemens medical solutions and still river systems, inc. the presence of competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours. in the scientific research instruments market, we compete with other companies as well as the internal engineering and fabrication capabilities in national and international research laboratories. our competitors in this market include thales group, mitsubishi electric corporation, advanced energy systems, inc. and ettore zanon spa for our radio frequency cavities and linear accelerators; asg superconductors spa, babcock noell gmbh, danfysik as and cryogenics ltd. for our magnet systems, and oxford danfysik beamlines limited, kohzu precision co., ltd. and instrument design technology ltd. for our x-ray beamlines. research and development developing products, systems and services based on advanced technological concepts is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. we maintain a product research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. research and development expenditures totaled $117 million, $100 million and $82 million in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. our research and development are conducted both within the relevant product groups of our businesses and through gtc. gtc maintains technical competencies in x-ray technology, imaging physics and applications, algorithms and software, electronic design, materials science and biosciences to prove feasibility of new product concepts and to improve current products. present research topics include new imaging concepts, image-based radiotherapy treatment planning and delivery, real time accommodation of moving targets, functional imaging and combined modality therapy, manufacturing process improvements, improved x-ray tubes and large-area, high resolution digital x-ray sensor arrays for cone-beam ct and other applications. gtc is also pursuing the potential of combining advances in directed energy and imaging technology with the latest breakthroughs in biotechnology by employing targeted energy to enhance the effectiveness of biological and chemical therapeutic agents. gtc is also investigating the use of x-ray and high energy accelerator, detector, and image processing technology for security applications. gtc accepts some sponsored research contracts from external agencies such as the u.s. government or private sources. within oncology systems, our development efforts are focused towards enhancing the reliability and performance of existing products and to develop new products. this development is conducted primarily in the united states, switzerland, canada, england and finland. in addition, we support research and development programs at selected hospitals and clinics. current areas for development within oncology 16 table of contents systems include linear accelerator systems and accessories for medical applications, information systems, radiation therapy treatment planning software, image processing software, imaging devices, simulation, patient positioning and equipment diagnosis and maintenance tools. much of the oncology systems development efforts relate to our next generation linear accelerators; other technology such as igrt and enhancements to igrt, such as our rapidarc technology and our hd120 multi-leaf collimator; our monte carlo and dose calculation algorithms for our treatment planning software products; and our new electronic health records within our information management software. within x-ray products, development is conducted at our salt lake city, utah and mountain view, california facilities and is primarily focused on developing and improving x-ray imaging component and subsystem products. current x-ray tube development areas include bearing coating to improve tube life and reduce tube noise, and ceramic design to improve the high voltage stability of x-ray tubes. we are also working on x-ray tube designs which will operate at higher power loadings and at higher ct rotational speed to enhance the performance of next generation ct scanners. research in flat panel imaging technology is aimed at developing new panel technologies for low cost radiographic imaging, flexible panel interfaces, cone beam ct, and high speed multi-slice ct detectors. while not an appreciable portion of our overall research and development spending in fiscal year 2007, we expect that, in order to realize the full potential of the accel business, we will need to invest substantial resources to properly develop and commercialize accel proton therapy technology and to build this new business, including developing manufacturing facilities and test beds. manufacturing and supplies we manufacture our medical linear accelerators in palo alto, california and as of july 2007 in beijing, china. our treatment simulator systems and some accelerator subsystems are manufactured in crawley, england and some of our other accessory products in baden, switzerland; helsinki, finland; toulouse, france and winnipeg, canada. we manufacture our high dose rate brachytherapy systems in crawley, england and haan, germany and our brachytherapy treatment planning products in charlottesville, virginia. our sip linear accelerators and certain radiographic products are manufactured in las vegas, nevada, as well as lincolnshire, illinois after our may 2007 acquisition of bir. we manufacture components of our proton therapy systems and related image treatment devices, as well as scientific research instruments products, in bergisch gladbach, germany after our january 2007 acquisition of accel. we manufacture our x-ray imaging component and subsystem products in salt lake city, utah (where we recently completed expansion of our facilities for additional flat panel detector production); charleston, south carolina; and willich, germany. these facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques and several have been honored by the press, governments and trade organizations for their commitment to quality improvement. except for the lincolnshire, illinois facility, these manufacturing facilities are certified by international standards organization, or iso, under iso 9001or iso 13485. manufacturing processes at our various facilities include machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly and final testing. we have invested in various automated and semi-automated equipment for the fabrication and machining of the parts and assemblies that we incorporate into our products. we may, from time to time, invest further in such equipment. our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw material, purchased parts and assemblies through on-line inspection. we also get subassemblies from third-party suppliers and integrate them into a finished system. we outsource the manufacturing of many major subassemblies and perform system design, assembly and testing in-house. we believe outsourcing enables us to reduce fixed costs and capital expenditures, while also providing us with the flexibility to increase production capacity. we purchase material and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the source wires for high-dose 17 table of contents afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, non-coated array sensors and coating for array sensors for the flat panels, specialized integrated circuits for imaging subassemblies, and some targets, housings and glass bulbs for x-ray tubes. we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems, lead and rhenium for x-ray products, tungsten for sip and high-grade steel and high-grade copper for accel. demand for these raw materials from foreign countries, such as china, has increased dramatically. as a result, the availability of these raw materials has been and may continue to be limited and their prices have increased and may continue to increase significantly. backlog our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2007 was $1.7 billion, of which we expect to recognize approximately 58% to 63% into revenues in fiscal year 2008. our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2006 was $1.4 billion, of which $784 million was recognized as revenues in fiscal year 2007. our oncology systems backlog represented 88% and 93% of the total backlog at the end of fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. we recognize orders for all products that are scheduled to be shipped within two years, except for proton therapy products, which we recognize orders that are scheduled to be shipped within four years. backlog also includes a small portion of service contracts when they become billable. we also include in backlog the amount of deferred revenue related to products that have been delivered but have outstanding contractual obligations or related to acceptance. semi-annually, we perform a review to determine that our backlog represents valid orders that will be converted to revenues within a reasonable period of time. the backlog review entails identifying aged orders and confirming these orders with our internal sales organization or our customers. aged orders which are not expected to be converted to revenues as a result of the backlog review are deemed dormant and are no longer included in the reported backlog. deferred revenue includes (i) the amount equal to the greater of the fair value of the installation services for hardware products or the amount of the payment that is contractually linked to acceptance and (ii) for a small number of products, the entire sale price applicable to products shipped but for which installation and/or final acceptance have not been completed. orders may be revised or canceled, either according to their terms or as customers needs change; consequently, it is impossible to predict with certainty the amount of backlog that will result in revenues. in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we reversed $62 million, $41 million and $35 million, respectively, of orders due to adjustments, revisions or cancellations. our reported net orders included all backlog reversals. product and other liabilities our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical medical analysis and treatment delivery; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support or the misuse of our products. additionally, while the proton therapy market is still developing and technology efficacy of proton therapy as an accepted treatment modality being established, customers are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since each proton center project may cost up to $100 million, the amount of potential liability may be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted and we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to our proton therapy business. 18 table of contents government regulation u.s. regulation as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as fda, and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure such devices are safe and effective. such regulations, which include the u.s. food, drug and cosmetic act, or the fdc act, and regulations promulgated by the fda, govern the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, possession, marketing, disposal, clinical investigations involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation producing devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. state regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. our oncology systems equipment and software, as well as proton therapy systems offered by our accel business, constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors produced by x-ray products are also considered medical devices. future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation as such. these laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. under the fdc act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with requirements applicable to good manufacturing practices. our manufacturing operations for medical devices are required to comply with the fda quality system regulation, or qsr, which addresses a company responsibility for quality systems, the requirements of good manufacturing practices and relate to product design, testing, and manufacturing quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. the qsr requires that each manufacturer establish a quality systems program by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with fda regulations and the manufacturer written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings. among other things, these regulations require that manufacturers establish performance requirements before production. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers and may issue reports, known as form fda 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or warning letters which, if not adequately responded to, could lead to enforcement actions against the manufacturer, including fines and total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. inspections usually occur every two years. our last inspection occurred in january 2007. the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or an approved pre-market approval application, or pma, before the manufacturer may take orders and distribute the product in the united states. the 510(k) clearance process is applicable when the new product being developed is substantially equivalent to an existing commercially available product. the process of obtaining 510(k) clearance generally takes at least one to three months from the date the application is filed and generally requires submitting supporting design data, which can be extensive and can extend the process for a considerable period of time beyond three months. after a product receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with the manufacturer decision, it may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a request for 510(k) pre-market notification clearance and can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the product until 510(k) clearance is obtained. if we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market 19 table of contents approval through a pma application. under the pma process, the applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical protocol and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information in the pma application to prove the safety and effectiveness of the product. this process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pre-market approval is accepted for filing, but can take longer for the fda to review. to date, we have produced class 1 medical devices, which require no pre-market approvals or clearances, and class 2 medical devices, which require only 510(k) clearance. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are class 1 medical devices, while all of the products produced by our oncology systems segment are class 2 medical devices. the fda and the federal trade commission, or ftc, also regulate the promotion and advertising of our products. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. it is also important that our products comply with electrical safety and environmental standards, such as those of underwriters laboratories, or ul, the canadian standards association, or csa, and the international electrotechnical commission, or iec. in addition, the manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive by-product material requires a specific radioactive material license. manufacture and distribution of these radioactive sources and devices also must be in accordance with an approved nuclear regulatory commission, or nrc certificate, or an agreement state registration certificate. further, service of these products must be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. we are also subject to a variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. for a further discussion of these laws and regulations, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental matters. beyond the above-mentioned regulations, the healthcare industry and we, as a participant in the healthcare industry, are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a broad array of additional subjects. further, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, sets national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions and standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of patient health information. the healthcare industry is also subject to a number of fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws, and false claims laws. see medicare and medicaid reimbursement for a description of these laws and regulations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. failure to comply with fda and other applicable regulations could result in a wide variety of actions against us, such as: investigations, form fda 483 reports of non-compliance or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production, or the imposition of operating restrictions; losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or delays in or refusals of requests for clearance or approval; seizures or recalls of our products; the inability to sell our products in the applicable jurisdiction; and criminal prosecutions. 20 table of contents the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. in addition, new laws and regulations may be adopted, which adversely affect our business. there has been a trend in recent years, both in the united states and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. medicare and medicaid reimbursement the u.s. federal government regulates reimbursement for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures furnished to medicare beneficiaries, including related physician services and capital equipment acquisition costs. for example, medicare reimbursement for operating costs for radiation treatment performed on hospital inpatients generally is set under the medicare prospective payment system, or pps, diagnosis-related group, or drg, regulations. under pps, medicare pays hospitals a fixed amount for services provided to an inpatient based on his or her drg, rather than reimbursing for the actual costs incurred by the hospital. patients are assigned to a drg based on their principal and secondary diagnoses, procedures performed during the hospital stay, age, gender and discharge status. medicare also reimburses pursuant to pps for capital costs which incorporates an add-on to the drg-based payment. hospital outpatient services are also covered by pps. under the outpatient pps system, medicare reimburses outpatient services according to rates calculated by medicare for groups of covered services known as ambulatory payment classification, or apc, groups. approximately 15 apc groups involve radiation oncology services. the reimbursement for each apc group is derived from a complicated calculation that incorporates historical cost information, including capital acquisition costs. for physicians, medicare reimburses all physicians based on two separate practice expense values for each physician service, one for when a service is furnished in a facility setting and another for when the service is performed in a physician office. typically, for a service that could be provided in either setting, the practice expense value would be higher when the service is performed in a physician office, as it would cover a physician costs such as equipment, supplies and overhead. the federal government and the congress from time to time consider various medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services in hospitals and freestanding clinics. private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government. the federal government reviews and adjusts reimbursement rates for medical procedures, including radiotherapy, on an annual basis. reimbursement for services rendered to medicaid beneficiaries is determined pursuant to each state medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law and regulations. the balanced budget act of 1997 revised the medicaid program to allow each state more control over coverage and payment issues. in addition, the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the medicaid program at the state level. the impact on our business of this greater state control on medicaid payment for diagnostic services remains uncertain. cms has published revised medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates for overall radiotherapy procedures, such as daily treatments, planning, and quality assurance that will go into effect in u.s. hospitals on january 1, 2008. based upon an analysis by american medical accounting &amp; consulting, inc., or amac, we do not expect these changes to have a material impact on customers decisions whether or not to purchase radiotherapy equipment or on our oncology systems business segment in the united states. the sale of medical devices including radiotherapy products, the referral of patients for diagnostic examinations and treatments utilizing such devices, and the submission of claims to third-party payors 21 table of contents (including medicare and medicaid) seeking reimbursement for such services, are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. these laws include physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. subject to enumerated exceptions, the federal physician self-referral law, also known as stark ii, prohibits a physician from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity with which the physician (or a family member) has a financial relationship, if the referral is for a designated health service, which is defined explicitly to include radiology and radiation therapy services. anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, induce, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of business, including the purchase of medical devices from a particular manufacturer or the referral of patients to a particular supplier of diagnostic services utilizing such devices. false claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent, for services not provided as claimed, or for medically unnecessary services. the office of the inspector general prosecutes violations of fraud and abuse laws and any violation may result in criminal and/or civil sanctions including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid. foreign regulation our operations outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda and the ftc. in addition, in foreign countries where we have operations or sell products, we are subject to laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of medical devices, radiation producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials and to the healthcare industry, and laws and regulation of general applicability relating to environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these laws and regulations are often comparable to or more stringent than u.s. laws and regulations. our sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. we rely in some countries on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with applicable regulatory requirements. the european union, or eu, implemented a medical device directive that requires us to affix the conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;ene, or ce, mark to our products in order to sell the products in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness mandated in applicable european medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to receive permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we must obtain quality system certification, e.g., iso 13485, and must otherwise have a quality management system that complies with the eu medical device directives. the iso promulgates standards for certification of quality assurance operations. we are certified as complying with the iso 9001 for our security inspection products and iso 13485 for our medical devices. several asian countries, including japan and china, have adopted regulatory schemes that are comparable, and in some cases more stringent, than the eu scheme. to import medical devices into japan, the requirements of japan new medical device regulation must be met and a shonin, the approval to sell medical products in japan, must be obtained. similarly in china, a registration certification issued by the state food and drug administration and a china compulsory certification, or ccc mark for certain products, are required to sell medical devices in that country. obtaining such certifications on our products can be time-consuming and can cause us to delay marketing or sales of certain products in such countries. similarly, prior to selling a device in canada, manufacturers of class ii, iii and iv devices must obtain a medical device license. varian sells class ii and class iii devices in canada. 22 table of contents a number of countries, including the members of the eu, have implemented or are implementing regulations that would require manufacturers to dispose, or bear some of the costs of disposal, of their products at the end of their useful lives, and to restrict the use of some hazardous substances in certain products sold in those countries. for a further discussion of these regulations, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates and contingencies. also, many countries where we sell our products have legislation protecting the confidentiality of personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released for inclusion in our databases, or released to third parties. patent and other proprietary rights we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes, because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace. we generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights in the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. as of september 28, 2007, we owned 178 patents issued in the united states and 55 patents issued throughout the rest of the world and we have 319 patent applications on file with various patent agencies worldwide. we intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we also have agreements with third parties that provide for licensing of patented or proprietary technology, including royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. for example, we are licensed by the university of michigan under patents relating to flat panel detectors. environmental matters for a discussion of environmental matters, see government regulation foreign regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental matters. financial information about geographic areas we do business globally with manufacturing in the united states, europe, and china; and sales operations and customers throughout the world. roughly half of our revenues are generated from our international regions. in addition to the potentially adverse impact of foreign regulations, see government regulation foreign regulation, we also may be affected by other factors related to our international sales such as: lower average selling prices and profit margins; longer time periods from shipment to revenue recognition (which increases revenue recognition deferrals and time in backlog); and longer time periods from shipment to cash collection (which increases days sales outstanding, or dso). so to the extent that the geographic distribution of our sales continues to shift more towards international regions, our overall revenues and margins may suffer. also, there may be adverse consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect both the affordability and competitiveness of our products and our profit margins, because we sell our products internationally predominantly in local currencies, but our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. we do engage in currency hedging strategies to offset the effect of currency exchange fluctuations, but the protection offered by these hedges depend upon the timing of transactions, forecast volatility, effectiveness of such hedges and the extent of currency fluctuation. we are also exposed to other economic, political and other risks inherent in doing business globally. for an additional discussion of these risks, see risk factors in item 1a. 23 table of contents for a discussion of financial information about geographic areas, see note 15 segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. employees at september 28, 2007, we had approximately 4,500 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 2,800 in the united states and 1,700 elsewhere. none of our employees based in the united states are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. employees based in some foreign countries may, from time to time, be subject to collective bargaining agreements. we currently consider our relations with our employees to be good. information available to investors as soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the securities and exchange commission, or sec, we make the following available free of charge on our investor relations page of our website http://www.varian.com ; our annual reports on form 10-k; quarterly reports on form 10-q; current reports on form 8-k (including any amendments to those reports); and our proxy statements. our code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit committee, compensation and management development committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available on the investor relations page of our website. additionally, we will provide copies of our reports, proxy statements, code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and committee charters, without charge, to any stockholder upon written request to the corporate secretary at our principal executive offices. please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed filed with the sec and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the securities act of 1933, as amended, or securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. executive officers of the registrant the biographical summaries of our executive officers as of november 12, 2007 are as follows: name age position timothy e. guertin 58 president and chief executive officer dow r. wilson 48 executive vice president and president, oncology systems elisha w. finney 46 senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer tai-yun chen 55 corporate vice president and corporate controller robert h. kluge 61 corporate vice president and president, x-ray products john w. kuo 44 corporate vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary timothy e. guertin became chief executive officer in february 2006 and president in august 2005. previously, mr. guertin served as chief operating officer from october 2004 to february 2006, and executive vice president from october 2002 to july 2005. mr. guertin also served as president of our oncology systems business unit from 1992 to january 2005. mr. guertin was corporate vice president from 1992 to 2002. mr. guertin has held various other positions in the medical systems business during his 31 years with the company. mr. guertin holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the university of california at berkeley. dow r. wilson was appointed executive vice president and president, oncology systems in august 2005. mr. wilson served as corporate vice president and president, oncology systems from january 2005 to august 2005. prior to joining the company in january 2005, mr. wilson was chief executive officer of the healthcare-information technologies business in general electric company, or gec (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. previously, mr. wilson served as general manager, surgical, x-ray and interventional businesses and general manager, functional imaging of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2002 to 2003, and was general 24 table of contents manager, computed tomography of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2000 to 2002. during the previous 15 years, mr. wilson held various management positions within gec. mr. wilson holds a b.a. degree in english from brigham young university and an m.b.a. degree from dartmouth amos tuck school of business. mr. wilson also has served on the board of directors of saba software, inc. (an e-learning software provider) since august 2006. elisha w. finney was appointed senior vice president, in addition to being chief financial officer, in january 2005. ms. finney was corporate vice president and chief financial officer from april 1999 to january 2005. ms. finney has held various other positions during her 19 years with the company including treasurer. ms. finney holds a b.b.a. degree in risk management and insurance from the university of georgia and an m.b.a. degree from golden gate university in san francisco. ms. finney was appointed a director of thoratec corporation (a medical device manufacturer) in june 2007. tai-yun chen was appointed corporate vice president and corporate controller in august 2006. from february 2006 to august 2006, ms. chen served as the company operations controller. prior to that, from january 2002 to february 2006, ms. chen was the company assistant corporate controller, and from 2000 to january 2002 ms. chen was the company director of corporate accounting. ms. chen has served in various accounting management positions throughout the company during her 24 years with the company. ms. chen holds a bachelor degree in economics from the national chung chi university in taiwan and a master degree in managerial economics from the university of california at santa barbara. robert h. kluge was appointed corporate vice president of the company in april 1999. prior to that, mr. kluge had been vice president and general manager of our x-ray products business since 1993. before joining the company in 1993, mr. kluge held various positions with picker international (an x-ray systems manufacturer). mr. kluge holds a b.a. degree in economics and an m.b.a. degree in finance from the university of wisconsin. john w. kuo was appointed corporate vice president, general counsel in july 2005 and corporate secretary in february 2005. mr. kuo joined the company as senior corporate counsel in march 2003 and became associate general counsel in march 2004. prior to joining the company, mr. kuo was general counsel and secretary at broadvision, inc. (an e-commerce software provider) in 2002 and held senior legal counsel positions at 3com corporation (a networking equipment provider) from 1997 to 2002. mr. kuo has previously been with the law firms of gray cary ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper rudnick gray cary) and fulbright &amp; jaworski. mr. kuo holds a b.a. degree from cornell university and a j.d. degree from boalt hall school of law at the university of california at berkeley. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer the marketplace for our radiation therapy products, including our oncology systems products, is characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. because our products often have long development and government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. for example, most of our recent product 25 table of contents introductions in our oncology systems business segment have related to imrt and igrt, and enhancements of existing products through greater systems integration and simplification. we believe that imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment in the radiation oncology market; however, if future studies contradict current knowledge about imrt or call into question the effectiveness of our imrt products or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our success will depend upon the continued growth in awareness, acceptance and success of imrt in general and acceptance of our products utilizing this technology in particular. imrt drove high order and revenue growth in north america from 1999 to 2003. however, as more institutions purchase imrt-equipped linear accelerators or upgrade their existing accelerators with imrt technology, the market for imrt-related products may become saturated and we would face competition from newer technologies. we have seen and continue to expect that the rate of growth for imrt-related equipment will be lower than what we have experienced previously, particularly in the north american market, as over 50% of our customer sites worldwide have the products and accessories necessary to perform the most advanced forms of imrt. our future success, therefore, will depend on our ability to accurately anticipate and capitalize on new customer demands through technological innovations and changes, including new technologies for treatment such as igrt. igrt is an advanced radiation therapy technology that complements imrt to further enhance radiation therapy treatments, and we continue to invest in product development relating to igrt treatment capabilities. we are seeing customers accept igrt as the next significant enhancement in curative radiation therapy, and demand for our products for igrt has been one of the main contributors to net orders and revenue growth in our oncology systems business segment. our future success will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the radiation oncology market of igrt and our igrt products as an evolutionary technology and methodology for radiotherapy treatment of cancers. we believe hospitals and clinics are converting to this new clinical process as early igrt sites demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of igrt. our efforts to increase awareness and adoption of our igrt products may not be successful. if our assumptions regarding the future importance of igrt are incorrect, if igrt fails to be effective as a treatment methodology, or if igrt fails to become widely accepted, our orders and revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. in january 2007, we completed the acquisition of accel, a privately-held supplier of proton therapy systems for cancer treatment and scientific research instruments. the acquisition will enable us to develop and offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for certain types of cancers. while we intend to continue to invest in product development relating to proton therapy treatment capabilities, acceptance of this technology may be slower than with our other cancer treatment technologies due to the relatively large scale, higher costs and complex project financing associated with implementing a proton therapy system. our future success will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for treatment of certain cancers. our efforts to increase awareness and adoption of our proton therapy systems may not be successful. if proton therapy fail to be effective as treatment methodologies, or if proton therapy fail to become widely accepted, our orders and revenues may not materialize. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly interested in the interconnectivity and simplicity of use of our various products for treating patients. for example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products and treatment planning and information management software products are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training and education in order to use them competently and safely. the complexity and training requirements are further increased by the products capability of operating together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) tighter interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) simplifying the usability of our software 26 table of contents products and (iii) lowering setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput, while maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers the flexibility to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. we anticipate that these efforts will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt and igrt and will foster greater demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. however, we face competition from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the ability for customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products, or use the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach while enabling greater interconnectivity, simplicity-of-use and lowering setup and treatment times, or if we are unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance simplicity-of-use efforts and setup and treatment times, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our x-ray products business segment sells products primarily to a limited number of oem customers who incorporate our products into their diagnostic imaging systems. some of these companies also manufacture x-ray tubes or flat panel detectors for their own systems. we, therefore, compete with these in-house x-ray tube and flat panel detector manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated systems businesses. to succeed, we must provide x-ray tube and flat panel detector products that meet our customer demands for lower cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and performance. if we are unable to continue to innovate our x-ray products technology and anticipate our customers demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease as our customers purchase from their internal manufacturing operations or from other independent x-ray tube or flat panel detector manufacturers. we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers, our competitors may develop improved products or processes, or the marketplace may conclude that the tasks our products were designed to do is no longer an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the markets for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. if we are unable to develop new generations of products and enhancements to existing products, we may be unable to attract or retain customers or gain acceptance of our products by customers our success depends upon the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products. our oncology systems products are technologically complex and must keep pace with, among other things, new product introductions of our competitors. our x-ray products business segment must also continually innovate to develop products with lower cost, better product quality and superior technology and performance. accordingly, many of our products require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels. in addition, we are making significant investments in long-term growth initiatives, such as development of our sip business through the acquisition of bio-imaging research, inc., or bir, and entry into the proton therapy business through the acquisition of accel, and expect that further efforts will be necessary to develop and commercialize some of the products and technology acquired. these activities require significant capital commitments, involvement of our senior management and other investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. our timeline for the development of new products or 27 table of contents enhancements may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. commercialization of new products may prove challenging, and we may be required to invest more time and money than expected to successfully introduce these products. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of new products or enhancements. in addition, a few of our research and development projects are funded by government contracts. changes in government priorities and our ability to attract similar funding may affect our overall research effort and ultimately, our ability to develop successful new products and product enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; prove feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors efforts. additionally, our ability to gain healthcare market acceptance and demand for our new radiation therapy products and treatment procedures may be also affected by the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases, which are frequently fixed one or more years in advance, and which may lengthen sales and ordering timeframes. in addition, even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them available to customers. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or phase in new products, treatment systems or product enhancements. the roll-out of new products, systems and product enhancements involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation, or qsr, of the u.s. food and drug administration, or the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delayed introduction of new products, treatment systems and product enhancements. without the successful introduction of new products, systems and product enhancements, we may be unable to attract and retain customers, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. additionally, if we fail to successfully manage the transition from old products to new products, systems and product enhancements, our customers may delay or cancel orders, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. in addition, the installation times associated with new products generally are longer than with well-established products. because recognition of a portion of the revenue associated with products is 28 table of contents generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. while we are working to decrease the installation times associated with new products, we cannot assure you that these plans will be successful or have a meaningful impact on reducing the associated revenue recognition deferrals. furthermore, even if our plans to decrease installation times are successful, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues may be adversely impacted over a longer period of time, and our financial results could be adversely affected. roughly half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 51%, 49% and 47% of revenues during fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support on a worldwide basis, and we have sales and service offices located in europe, asia, south america and australia. in addition, we have manufacturing and research operations in england, germany, switzerland, france, finland and china. we have invested and will continue to invest substantial financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure to meet the needs of our customers. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets, although we cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully in the international markets, generate new business, or meet the service and support needs of our customers there. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country legal systems; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; the fact that international regions typically have a longer period from shipment to revenue recognition resulting in greater revenue recognition deferrals, higher backlog and a lower gross margin on our products; our ability to obtain u.s. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with u.s. export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. historically, our international sales have had lower average selling prices and gross margins. so, as the geographic distribution of our orders and sales shifts increasingly towards our international regions, our overall rate of orders growth (measured in u.s. dollars) could slow down and overall revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected. in addition, we generally retain cash received through international operations in our local subsidiaries. as of september 28, 2007, 91% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, they could be subject to additional taxation, and we would not receive 29 table of contents the full benefit of such repatriation. additionally, this could cause our overall tax rate to increase. this could cause our business, and results of operations, to suffer. our results may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates since we sell our products internationally and have international operations, we are also subject to market risk due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect product demand, our expenses and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products and services or of our expenses is made in the local currency. we manage this risk through established policies and procedures that include the use of derivative financial instruments. we have historically entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of operational (sales orders) and balance sheet exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our forward exchange contracts generally range from one to twelve months in maturity. although we engage in hedging strategies that may offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide will be affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges (measured by how closely the changes in fair value of the hedging instrument offset the changes in fair value of the hedged item), the number of transactions that are hedged, forecast volatility and the extent of movement of foreign currency exchange rates. if our hedging strategies are not effective in offsetting the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, our operating results may be harmed. in addition, because currencies fluctuate and we engage in hedging strategies over time, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, and therefore make comparing our financial results from period to period more difficult. also because our hedging strategy is to protect the gross margin dollars on our orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations that positively affect our revenues may result in erosion of gross margin. in addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the competitiveness of our products. even though sales of our products internationally occur predominantly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar, and some of our competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies, so our overall margins and pricing competitiveness may be adversely affected. in fact, we have benefited from the relatively weak u.s. dollar that has made our pricing more competitive with our foreign competitors. this has been a contributor to our international order and revenue growth. any significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other countries currencies may result in slower growth in our international orders and revenues, which then could negatively affect our overall financial performance and results. the relative weakness of the u.s. dollar against other currencies has been a subject of policy discussions within the u.s. government and among other countries governments. changes in monetary or other policies will likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and if we fail or are delayed in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals or fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be unable to distribute our products or may be subject to significant penalties our products and the products of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation, both in the united states and in foreign countries. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. 30 table of contents in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that medical devices receive 510(k) pre-market clearance or pre-market approval before we, as a manufacturer of medical devices, can take orders for or sell those products in the united states. in addition, modifications or enhancements to these products that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or that constitute a major change in intended use, require further fda clearance or approval. obtaining fda clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. we may fail to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for those products. if we were unable to obtain required fda approval or clearance for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business would suffer. in the past, our products have either been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. the 510(k) clearance process is generally less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the pre-market approval, or pma, process. if we were required to use the pma approval process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, and could cause our business to suffer. our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the fda qsr, which addresses the design, controls, methods, facilities and quality assurance used in manufacturing, assembly, packing, storing and installing medical devices. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections has issued, and in the future may issue, reports or written notices listing instances where we have failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures or may issue warning letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures. if a warning letter were issued, we would be required to take prompt corrective action to come into compliance. failure to respond timely to a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the shutdown of our production facilities and criminal and civil fines. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors, who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our business and stock price. the fda also regulates the promotion and advertising of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, and that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims. if the fda determines that any of our promotional claims are not permissible, we may be required to revise our promotional claims or may be subject to enforcement actions. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda and other regulatory authorities, including (i) reports of corrections and removals from the market of our devices, and (ii) reports required by the medical device reporting, or mdr, regulations and similar international regulations, which require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed timely, sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nuclear regulatory commission, or nrc, clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive state regulation that varies from state to state. our manufacture and distribution of medical 31 table of contents devices utilizing radioactive material also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, fraud and abuse laws and regulations such as physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. if we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with fda and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations, notices of non-compliance or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or the refusal of future requests for clearance or approval; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; the inability to sell our products; and criminal prosecutions. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. we face significant costs in order to comply with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products. our operations and sales of our products outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country, and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. we are also subject to laws and regulations outside the united states applicable to manufacturers of radiation-producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each case that are often comparable, if not more stringent, than regulation in the united states. in addition, our sales of products in foreign countries are subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, environmental and product recycling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. in some countries, we rely on our 32 table of contents foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. we may be required to incur significant time and expense in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in the applicable country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, which would adversely affect our business. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws prohibiting kickbacks and false and fraudulent claims which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. additionally, any challenges to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. in particular, these laws will influence, among other things, how we structure our sales offerings, including discounts and rebate practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we will not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. moreover, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. in addition, we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states of eu. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. moreover, industry associations closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or national authorities were to name us as having breached our obligations under their laws, regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because 33 table of contents our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body, other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products are used as part of an overall process that takes place within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance, or qa, procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. additionally, human and other errors or accidents may arise from the fact that our products operate in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operate according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers or others for damages resulting from the faulty or allegedly faulty design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing, interoperability or the misuse of our products. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. with any accident, we could be subject to legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. furthermore, adverse publicity regarding accidents or mistreatments involving radiation therapy could adversely impact our business by negatively affecting the reputation of radiation therapy in general, causing patients to question the efficacy of radiation therapy as a viable treatment for cancer and seek other modalities of treatment. in addition, if a product we designed or manufactured were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. product recalls may also result in unexpected loss accruals under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america, or gaap, that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. the adverse publicity resulting from a recall could cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. these recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or cancellation of customer orders and service contracts, could result in our incurring substantial costs and management time, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage in amounts we deem sufficient for our business and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omission liability. the product liability insurance policies that we maintain are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. in the future, these policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. in addition, the insurance coverage we have obtained may not be adequate. a successful material claim brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited would require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. many of the companies with which our oncology systems business competes have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. also, we expect that the rapid technological changes occurring in our markets will lead to the entry of new competitors into our markets, as well as our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new market segments such as stereotactic radiosurgery. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to provide technologically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more 34 table of contents precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. our ability to compete in the radiation therapy market may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, because our products are generally sold on a total value to the customer basis. this may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making purchase decisions. in addition, the presence of additional competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours. these delays can extend our sales cycle and therefore adversely affect our net orders and operating results. in our sales of linear accelerator products for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, we compete primarily with siemens medical solutions, elekta ab, tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, computerized medical systems, inc., north american scientific, inc., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. we also have begun to encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. in respect of our brachytherapy business, our primary competitor is nucletron b.v. for the service and maintenance business for our products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. the market for x-ray imaging components and subsystems is extremely competitive, with our competitors frequently having greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oems for our x-ray tubes, also manufacture x-ray tubes for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations that are naturally favored by their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporationphilips medical systems and ge healthcare, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive, and we primarily compete against perkin-elmer, inc., trixell s.a.s., canon, inc. and hologic, inc. in our flat panel detector product line. in our sip business, including newly acquired bir, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states, and our major competitor in this market is nuctech company limited. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial application is very small and highly fractured. there is no single major competitor in this nondestructive testing market. the market for proton therapy products is still in the infancy stages but is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to complete the development of our commercial proton therapy system, lower our product costs, develop and provide technologically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. in the proton therapy market, we compete principally with ion beam applications s.a., hitachi medical corporation, siemens medical solutions and still river systems, inc. the presence of competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours. in the scientific research instruments market, we compete with other companies as well as the internal engineering and fabrication capabilities in national and international research laboratories. our competitors in this market include thales group, mitsubishi electric corporation, advanced energy systems, inc. and ettore zanon spa for our radio frequency cavities and linear accelerators; asg superconductors spa, babcock noell gmbh, danfysik as and cryogenics ltd. for our magnet systems, and oxford danfysik beamlines limited, kohzu precision co., ltd. and instrument design technology ltd. for our x-ray beamlines. 35 table of contents in each of our business segments, existing competitors actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that are or may be perceived by customers to provide a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to or operate under the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we do, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. interoperability of our products with one another and their compatibility with third- party products is becoming increasingly important, and if we are unable to make our products interoperate with one another or compatible with widely used third-party products, sales of our products could decrease as radiation therapy becomes more and more complex, our customers are increasingly concerned about the interoperability and compatibility of the various products they use in providing treatment to patients. for example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products, treatment planning and information management software products are designed to interoperate with one another, and to be compatible with other widely used third-party radiation oncology products. obtaining and maintaining this interoperability and compatibility is costly and time-consuming. when third parties modify the design or functionality of their products, it can require us to modify our products to ensure compatibility. conversely, when we implement design improvements to our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to interoperability issues; for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software network provider does not yet have a proper software interface available. in addition, our ability to obtain compatibility with third-party products can depend on the third parties providing us with adequate information regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may time their product changes, and their sharing of relevant information with us, to place us at a competitive disadvantage. further, we could be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances for any modification of our products due to interoperability issues with the products of third parties. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may be unable to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. we may incur substantial costs in protecting our intellectual property, and if we are not able to do so, our competitive position would be harmed we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or 36 table of contents circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary rights. we cannot assure you that these protections will prove adequate, that agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we cannot assure you that unauthorized third parties will not use our trademarks. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products the industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. while we do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such dispute. we also do not maintain insurance for such intellectual property infringement. therefore, if we are unsuccessful in defending any such infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our products, or may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. we cannot assure you that any licenses required would be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all. since we depend upon a limited group of suppliers, and in some cases sole source suppliers, for some product components, the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of these components could reduce our ability to manufacture products, cause material delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs; shortages of key raw materials could have a similar effect we obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our products from a limited group of suppliers, or in some cases a single-source supplier. examples include the source wires for high-dose afterloaders; klystrons for linear accelerators; imaging panels; non-coated array sensors; coating for array sensors for the flat panel detectors; specialized integrated circuits for imaging subassemblies; and some targets, housings and glass bulbs for x-ray tubes. if we lose any of these suppliers or if their operations 37 table of contents were substantially interrupted, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of such product by the fda or other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against business interruption loss, we cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. additionally, some of these suppliers, including our single-source suppliers, supply components for certain of our growing product lines that are growing rapidly. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of these suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product lines. shortage of and greater demand for components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs by increasing prices. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. in addition, we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems, lead and rhenium for x-ray products, tungsten for sip and high-grade steel and high-grade copper for accel. demand for these raw materials from foreign countries, such as china, has increased dramatically. as a result, the availability of these raw materials has been and may continue to be limited and their prices have increased and may continue to increase significantly. this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. we sell our x-ray tubes to a limited number of oem customers, many of whom are also our competitors, and the loss or reduction in purchasing volume by one or more of these customers or consolidation among oems in the x-ray tube products market could reduce our sales of x-ray tube products we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of whom are also our competitors, for incorporation into diagnostic imaging systems. the loss of, or reduction in purchasing volume by, one or more of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our x-ray products business. there has been a consolidation of diagnostic imaging systems manufacturers over the past few years. the ongoing consolidation of customers who purchase our x-ray tube products, including the consolidation of these customers into companies that already manufacture x-ray tubes, could result in less predictable and reduced sales of our x-ray tube products. in addition, our oem customers products, which also use our tubes, could lose market share to competitive products or technologies and, thereby, result in a reduction in our orders and revenues. we sell our linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators to oem customers who depend on customer delivery and acceptance schedules, which may cause orders for our security and inspection products to be unpredictable our sip business, including newly acquired bir, designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators and imaging hardware and software products for security and inspection, as well as non-destructive testing and research purposes. we generally sell our accelerators and imaging products to oems who incorporate them into their inspection products, which are then sold to customs agencies and other government agencies, as well as to commercial private parties. we believe growth in this business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. however, use of linear accelerator and imaging technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. orders for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable and the actual timing of sales and 38 table of contents revenue recognition will vary significantly, as it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery and acceptance schedules. in addition, our sip business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, all of which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to political changes, which may cause uncertainty and variability in the timing of orders. thus, orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly correlated to the level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or period. this unpredictability in orders, sales and revenue timing could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore our stock price. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we are often required to educate physicians about the use of a new treatment procedure such as imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiosurgery or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products. for example, the complexity and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of imrt and igrt and the required departures from their customary practices. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiosurgery and proton therapy generally and to encourage acceptance and adoption of our products for imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiosurgery and proton therapy. the timing of our competitors introduction of products and the market acceptance of their products may also make this educational process more difficult. we cannot be sure that any products we develop will gain any significant market acceptance and market share among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if the required regulatory approvals are obtained. we may not be able to maintain or expand our business if we are not able to retain, hire and integrate sufficiently qualified personnel our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel, technical personnel and sales and marketing staff. the loss of services of key employees could adversely affect our business. competition for key personnel can be intense. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because the competition for qualified personnel is intense, costs related to compensation could increase significantly if supply decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer as a manufacturer of products with a long production cycle, we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate demand adequately or to adjust our resources appropriately. if our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our financial results. 39 table of contents we may attempt to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technology or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, as a strategy to achieve quicker time to market for new products or technology, or to enter new markets, we may determine to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, in fiscal year 2007 we acquired accel, a privately-held german supplier of scientific research instruments and proton therapy systems for cancer treatment, and bir, a privately-held supplier of x-ray imaging products for security and inspection. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, the completion of an acquisition could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. furthermore, even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies or employees into our operations, or may not be able to realize some of the synergies expected from an acquisition. the process of integration could be expensive, time-consuming and may strain our resources. for example, we may encounter challenges in the commercialization of new products and may have to invest more than originally anticipated in order to do so, as we are experiencing with accel proton therapy systems. these additional expenditures could be significant and could cause our results of operations to suffer. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure acquired businesses, and we cannot be certain that the restructuring activities will produce the full efficiencies and benefits we expect. consequently, we may not achieve anticipated growth or other benefits from an acquisition, which could harm our existing business. in addition, acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. we account for our acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. under this method, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses tangible assets and liabilities, amortizable intangible assets and in-process research and development costs based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, we may be required to write down the value of our intangible assets and goodwill, which may harm of our financial results. the acquisition or development of new lines of business may subject us to additional risks from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as proton therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting professionals to manage the new business lines, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new marketing relationships with experienced market participants. each new business may require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the new line of business into our operations. initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business may 40 table of contents not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new line of business will be successful. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party reimbursements for radiation oncology services may affect demand for our products the united states government has in the past, and may in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted such policies. these policies have included, and may in the future include, rationing of government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and imposing price controls on medical products and services providers. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, including those that may reduce reimbursement rates for our products or procedures using our products, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services and our business. we are unable to predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, will be enacted in the united states or elsewhere, whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business. in addition, sales of some of our products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers for the treatment provided by those products from third-party healthcare payors, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs, private insurance plans, health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors often adopt medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment would likely extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. while we believe reimbursement policies and amounts are not a major factor in our customer purchasing decisions for radiotherapy products, a dramatic change in the availability and amount of reimbursement for treatments using our products could influence our customers decisions. any sharp cuts in overall reimbursement rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy could increase uncertainty and reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. as a general matter, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for specific services or devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels 41 table of contents for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems, and there is an emerging private sector. we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly net orders, revenues, and gross margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and gross margins. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and expect this to extend to our proton therapy and scientific research instruments products because of the high cost of the equipment and the complexity of project financing. we also expect that orders (and related revenues) for accel scientific research instruments products will vary as they are tied primarily to large, government or national laboratory research projects. timing of order placement from customers, including those in the government or public sector, and their willingness to commit to purchase products are inherently difficult to predict or forecast. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay installation. for proton therapy products, this can delay the customer decision cycles even further. the timing of when individual orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized could have an effect our quarterly results. once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues and the timing include: delay in shipment due, for example, to longer construction projects or unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations or rescheduling by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or manufacturing difficulties; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; or a change in a customer financial condition or ability to obtain financing. our quarterly operating results may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors pricing or discount levels; changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products; revenues becoming affected by seasonal influences; timing of revenue recognition; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by the international region; timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; 42 table of contents changes in the general economic conditions in the regions in which we do business; the possibility that unexpected levels of cancellations of orders may affect certain assumptions upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance; the impact of changing levels of sales to sole purchasers of certain of our x-ray products; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation; misleading information in the financial community; and accounting adjustments, such as those relating to accounting reserves for product recalls, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, share-based compensation expense as required under sfas 123(r) and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our accel products, which are presently below the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by the rules of gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our independent public accountants; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog results in such a manner. also, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues as the timing of future revenues depends on completion of customer site preparation and construction, installation scheduling, customer capital budgeting and financing, appropriate regulatory authorizations and other factors. unexpected levels of cancellation of orders or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce the quarterly net orders results and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. our net orders, backlog and revenues in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. the financial results of our proton therapy and research instruments business may fluctuate and be unpredictable the proton therapy and scientific research instruments projects of our accel business are highly customized and vary in size and complexity. planning for these projects will take more time and use more resources than those in the radiotherapy business conducted in our oncology systems segment. due to its relatively large scale, the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. if we are required to establish special purpose entities to finance and manage a proton therapy project, we may be required to consolidate these special purpose entities in our financial statements, or guarantee performance and assume liabilities that are in excess of the project value, which could negatively impact our financial results. in the scientific research instruments market, projects are generally publicly funded, and decisions on new projects or project upgrades are subject to public and political factors. therefore, sales and customer decision cycles may take several years. as a result, the timing of proton therapy and scientific research instruments projects may vary significantly from period to period, and our operating results and stock price may be adversely affected. in addition, many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require a long lead time, which may translate into an increase in our levels of inventory. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of our proton therapy and research instruments business that may make it difficult to predict our operating results and to compare our financial results from period to period. this could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 43 table of contents moreover, entrance into the proton therapy and scientific research instruments business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. these indemnification arrangements would be limited to a percentage of the value of the project; however, due to the high dollar value of proton therapy projects, the liability that we would assume may nevertheless be substantial. additionally, while the proton therapy market is still developing and technology efficacy of proton therapy as an accepted treatment modality being established, customers are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since each proton therapy center project may cost up to $100 million, the amount of potential liability may be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted and we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to our proton therapy business. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. this and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. we plan to upgrade and modify our enterprise resource planning and other key software applications, which could cause unexpected problems to occur and could disrupt the management of our business. we plan to upgrade and modify the enterprise resource planning, or erp, system used for our worldwide operations, as well as other key software applications used in our global operations. our erp system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record transactions, manage our personnel records, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. the planned upgrade involves some process re-engineering, and may eventually become more costly, difficult and time-consuming to purchase and implement than we currently anticipate. in addition, we may encounter unexpected difficulties, costs or other challenges with this upgrade and any modifications, any of which may disrupt our business. corrections and improvements may be required as we upgrade and modify our systems, procedures and controls, and could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. if we fail to manage these changes effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and, as a further consequence, affect our operating results. we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position. we maintain a revolving credit facility that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to maintain compliance with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may have difficulty securing additional financing in the form of additional indebtedness. furthermore, if we fail to comply with these covenants, requirements or any other provision of the credit facility, we may be in default under the credit facility, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary amendments or waivers of a 44 table of contents default. upon an event of default under our credit facility not otherwise amended or waived, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if the payment of our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform with gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board, american institute of certified public accountants, the securities and exchange commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including those regarding revenue recognition, than we had applied in past periods. for example, if we develop products that contain more software components, we may be required to recognize revenue for the software components separately from the hardware components and in accordance with software revenue recognition rules, which could delay recognition of some revenue. additionally, while we recognize revenue for many of our oncology systems products in accordance with staff accounting bulletin no. 104 revenue recognition and sop no. 97-2, software revenue recognition , as amended by sop no. 98-9, software revenue recognition with respect to certain agreements , we recognize revenues using the percentage-of -completion method for certain contracts for products and services in the proton therapy and research instruments businesses and certain products and services in the sip business, in accordance with sop 81-1, accounting for performance of construction-type and certain product type contracts , which will affect the timing of revenue recognition. under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, sales and gross profit are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at the completion of the contract. if a loss is expected on a contract, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. because the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, and because the estimates must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted, if our estimates are not accurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss, and our financial results could suffer. while we currently apply the percentage-of-completion method of accounting to certain contracts for products and services in the proton therapy and research instruments businesses and certain products and services in the sip business, we could be required to apply them to other businesses in the future. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential adjustments may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of our common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. the nature of our business exposes us to environmental claims, cleanup costs, or expenses, which could cause us to pay significant amounts we are subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials; these laws may create increased costs for some of our operations. although we follow procedures that we consider appropriate under existing regulations, these procedures can be costly and we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these hazardous materials; in the event of such an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. we do not maintain insurance for clean up costs or third-party claims resulting from environmental contamination which could occur in the future. we do, however, maintain insurance 45 table of contents policies that may provide coverage for cleanup costs or third-party claims resulting from some historical occurrences of environmental contamination although this insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover these costs or claims. we could also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to comply with future changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or new laws and regulations. for example, several countries, including many in the eu, are requiring medical equipment manufacturers to bear some or all of the cost of product disposal at the end of the products useful life, thus creating increased costs for our operations. the eu has also adopted a directive that may require the adoption of restrictions on the use of some hazardous substances in certain of our products sold in the eu. this directive could create increased costs for our operations. all of these costs, and any future violations or liability under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. as a strategy to utilize our available cash to better assist our sales efforts, we offer extended payment terms, which may potentially result in higher dso and greater payment defaults we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. during fiscal year 2007, customer contracts with longer or extended payment terms amounted to approximately 3% of total oncology systems revenues. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, we cannot assure you that the financial positions of these customers will not change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. in such an event, we may experience an increase in payment defaults in our accounts receivable, which will affect our net earnings. also, longer or extended payment terms have and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business we conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance. this coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and result in large expenses. if any of our customers facilities are adversely affected by a natural disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed even further. in addition, our facilities, particularly those located in the western states of the united states, may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any natural disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. the effect of terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases may negatively affect sales and hinder our operations concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and avian influenza, especially in our major markets of north america or europe, could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. 46 table of contents our stockholder rights plan and provisions of our certificate of incorporation may discourage a take-over and therefore limit the price of our common stock we have a stockholder rights plan that, under specific circumstances, would significantly dilute the equity interest in our company of a person (or persons) seeking to acquire control of our company without the prior approval of our board of directors. our certificate of incorporation also includes provisions that may make an acquisition of control of our company without the approval of our board of directors more difficult. this stockholder rights plan and provisions in our certificate of incorporation may discourage take-over attempts and limit the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to two primary types of market risks: foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and typically hedge certain of these larger firmly committed foreign currency denominated sales orders when they are not in the subsidiaries functional currency. these foreign currency sales orders that fit our risk management policy criteria, excluding the amounts relating to the products made outside of the united states, are hedged with forward exchange contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward exchange contracts range from one to twelve months in maturity. as of september 28, 2007, we did not have any forward exchange contracts with an original maturity greater than twelve months. as international deliveries may extend beyond twelve months, we may hedge beyond twelve months in the future. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward exchange contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward exchange contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. 77 table of contents the notional values of sold and purchased forward exchange contracts for both hedges of foreign currency denominated sales orders and balance sheet exposures from our subsidiaries outstanding at september 28, 2007 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased unrealized gain (loss) fair value australian dollar $ 26.1 $ $ (0.5 ) $ (0.7 ) british pound 24.3 5.8 (0.2 ) (0.4 ) canadian dollar 40.6 (1.1 ) (1.4 ) danish krone 7.9 euro 304.4 10.9 (4.6 ) (6.0 ) japanese yen 56.1 1.2 (0.2 ) (0.4 ) new zealand dollar 2.3 singapore dollar 2.1 1.9 swedish krona 8.3 swiss franc 21.4 totals $ 472.1 $ 41.2 $ (6.6 ) $ (8.9 ) interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and short-term borrowings. our investment portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents as of september 28, 2007. we did not have any marketable securities at september 28, 2007. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 28, 2007 totaled $263 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.05%. in the event that interest rates were to decrease substantially, we might reinvest a substantial portion of our investment portfolio at lower interest rates. we have established a $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility with bank of america, n.a., or bofa, to support general corporate purposes, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions and stock repurchases. borrowings under the credit facility accrue interest either (i) based on the libor plus a margin of .45% to .70% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and amortization, or ebitda or (ii) based upon a base rate of either the federal funds rate plus .5% or bofa announced prime rate, which ever is greater, plus a margin of 1.75% to 2.25% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda, depending upon our instructions to bofa as to whether advances are to be based on the libor rate or the base rate. we may select borrowing periods of one, two, three or six months for advances based on the libor rate. interest rates on advances based on the base rate are adjustable daily. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under this credit facility. as of september 28, 2007, an aggregate principal amount of $41 million was outstanding under the credit facility with interest being accrued based on a margin plus libor. if the principal amounts outstanding under this credit facility remained at this year-end level for an entire year and libor increased or decreased, respectively, by 1%, our interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, an additional $0.4 million. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate of our investment portfolio, short-term borrowings or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. in addition, we had $49.4 million of long-term debt outstanding at september 28, 2007 carried at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.87% with principal payments due in various installments over a seven-year period. 78 table of contents the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, long term debt and short-term borrowings. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 263.2 $ $ $ $ $ $ 263.2 average interest rate 4.05 % 4.05 % marketable securities $ $ $ $ $ $ $ average interest rate liabilities: long-term debt $ 9.0 $ 8.0 $ 9.0 $ 5.5 $ 11.6 $ 6.3 $ 49.4 average interest rate 6.84 % 6.90 % 6.85 % 6.80 % 7.03 % 6.70 % 6.87 % short-term borrowings under the credit facility $ 41.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 41.0 average interest rate 6.04 % 6.04 % the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents (91% of which was held abroad at september 28, 2007 and could be subject to additional taxation if it was repatriated to the united states) and the estimated fair value of our short-term borrowings under the credit facility approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the fair value of our long-term debt is estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. under this method, the fair value of our debt was estimated to be $52.0 million at september 28, 2007. we determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. however, it requires considerable judgment in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. accordingly, the fair value estimate presented is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instrument could realize in a current market exchange. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 26 for a discussion of financial information about geographic areas, see note 14 segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. discontinued operations in september 2008, we approved a plan to sell the research instruments division of accel, which develops, manufactures and services highly customized scientific instrument components and systems for fundamental and applied physics research primarily for national research laboratories worldwide. the operations of research instruments are conducted from bergisch gladbach, germany. the market for research instruments is characterized by a few large projects in the multi-million to billion-dollar range and a number of national accelerator projects ranging from one to five hundred million dollars. the timing of these research projects, and their associated orders and revenues, may be unpredictable due to public funding, which can be subject to governmental and political factors. this results in engineering and manufacturing resources fluctuating over time. research instruments was previously included with the accel proton therapy business, which is reported under the other category in our consolidated financial statements. we decided to sell research instruments in order to focus exclusively on the development of our accel proton therapy business. in accordance with sfas 144, we have classified research instruments as a discontinued operation in our consolidated statements of earnings and consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. see note 15 discontinued operations and assets held for sale in notes to consolidated financial statements for detailed discussion. employees including employees of research instruments, we had approximately 4,900 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 3,000 in the united states and 1,900 elsewhere at september 26, 2008. none of our employees based in the united states are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. employees based in some foreign countries may, from time to time, be subject to collective bargaining agreements. we currently consider our relations with our employees to be good. information available to investors as soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the securities and exchange commission, or sec, we make the following available free of charge on our investor relations page of our website http://www.varian.com ; our annual reports on form 10-k; quarterly reports on form 10-q; current reports on form 8-k (including any amendments to those reports); and our proxy statements. our code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit committee, compensation and management development committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available on the investor relations page of our website. additionally, we will provide copies of our reports, proxy statements, code of business ethics, 24 table of contents corporate governance guidelines and committee charters, without charge, to any stockholder upon written request to the corporate secretary at our principal executive offices. please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed filed with the sec and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), or the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). executive officers of the registrant the biographical summaries of our executive officers as of are as follows: name age position timothy e. guertin 59 president and chief executive officer dow r. wilson 49 corporate executive vice president and president, oncology systems elisha w. finney 47 corporate senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer robert h. kluge 62 corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products tai-yun chen 56 corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller john w. kuo 45 corporate vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary timothy e. guertin became chief executive officer in february 2006 and president in august 2005. previously, mr. guertin served as chief operating officer from october 2004 to february 2006, and executive vice president from october 2002 to july 2005. mr. guertin also served as president of our oncology systems business unit from 1992 to january 2005. mr. guertin was corporate vice president from 1992 to 2002. mr. guertin has held various other positions in the medical systems business during his 32 years with the company. mr. guertin holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the university of california at berkeley. dow r. wilson was appointed corporate executive vice president and president, oncology systems in august 2005. mr. wilson served as corporate vice president and president, oncology systems from january 2005 to august 2005. prior to joining the company in january 2005, mr. wilson was chief executive officer of the healthcare-information technologies business in general electric (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. previously, mr. wilson served as general manager, surgical, x-ray and interventional businesses and general manager, functional imaging of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2002 to 2003, and was general manager, computed tomography of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2000 to 2002. during the previous 15 years, mr. wilson held various management positions within general electric. mr. wilson holds a b.a. degree in english from brigham young university and an m.b.a. degree from dartmouth amos tuck school of business. mr. wilson also has served on the board of directors of saba software, inc. (an e-learning software provider) since august 2006. elisha w. finney was appointed corporate senior vice president, finance, in addition to being chief financial officer, in january 2005. ms. finney was corporate vice president and chief financial officer from april 1999 to january 2005. ms. finney has held various other positions during her 20 years with the company including treasurer. ms. finney holds a b.b.a. degree in risk management and insurance from the university of georgia and an m.b.a. degree from golden gate university in san francisco. ms. finney was appointed a director of thoratec corporation (a medical device manufacturer) in june 2007. robert h. kluge was appointed corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products of the company in february 2008. prior to that, mr. kluge served as corporate vice president and president, x-ray products from december 1999 to february 2008 and as vice president and general manager of our x-ray products business from 1993 to december 1999. before joining the company in 1993, mr. kluge held various positions with picker international (an x-ray systems manufacturer). mr. kluge holds a b.a. degree in economics and an m.b.a. degree in finance from the university of wisconsin. 25 table of contents tai-yun chen was appointed corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller in august 2006. from february 2006 to august 2006, ms. chen served as the company operations controller. prior to that, from january 2002 to february 2006, ms. chen was the company assistant corporate controller, and from 2000 to january 2002 ms. chen was the company director of corporate accounting. ms. chen has served in various accounting management positions throughout the company during her 25 years with the company. ms. chen holds a bachelor degree in economics from the national chung chi university in taiwan and a master degree in managerial economics from the university of california at santa barbara. john w. kuo was appointed corporate vice president, general counsel in july 2005 and corporate secretary in february 2005. mr. kuo joined the company as senior corporate counsel in march 2003 and became associate general counsel in march 2004. prior to joining the company, mr. kuo was general counsel and secretary at broadvision, inc. (an e-commerce software provider) in 2002 and held senior legal counsel positions at 3com corporation (a networking equipment provider) from 1997 to 2002. mr. kuo has previously been with the law firms of gray cary ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper rudnick gray cary) and fulbright &amp; jaworski. mr. kuo holds a b.a. degree from cornell university and a j.d. degree from boalt hall school of law at the university of california at berkeley. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer the marketplace for our radiation therapy products, including our oncology systems products, is characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. because our products often have long development and government approval cycles, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands. for example, most of our recent product introductions in our oncology systems business segment have related to imrt, igrt, and vmat, and enhancements of existing products through greater systems integration and simplification. we believe that imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment in the radiation oncology market. however, if future studies contradict current knowledge about imrt or call into question the effectiveness of our imrt products or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our success will depend upon the continued acceptance and success of imrt in general and acceptance of our products utilizing this technology in particular. however, as more institutions purchase imrt-equipped linear accelerators or upgrade their existing accelerators with imrt technology, the market for imrt products may become saturated and we could face competition from newer technologies. we have seen and continue to expect that the rate of growth for imrt equipment will be lower than what we have experienced previously, particularly in the north american market where a majority of our customer sites have the products and accessories necessary to perform imrt. our future success, therefore, will depend on our ability to accurately anticipate and capitalize on new customer demands through technological innovations and changes, including new technologies for treatment such as igrt and vmat, as well as new products such as our rapidarc products. 26 table of contents igrt is a further advanced radiation therapy technology complementing imrt to enhance radiation therapy treatments, and we continue to invest in product development relating to igrt treatment capabilities. we are experiencing customers accept igrt as the next significant enhancement in curative radiation therapy, and demand for our products for igrt has been one of the main contributors to recent net orders and revenue growth in our oncology systems business segment. our future success will also depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the radiation oncology market of igrt and our igrt products as an evolutionary technology and methodology for radiotherapy treatment of cancers. we believe hospitals and clinics are converting to this new clinical process as early igrt sites demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of igrt. our efforts to increase awareness and adoption of our igrt products may not be successful. if our assumptions regarding the future importance of igrt are incorrect, if igrt fails to be effective as a treatment methodology, or if igrt fails to become widely accepted, orders and revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. the acquisition of accel should enable us to develop and offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. while we intend to continue to invest in product development relating to proton therapy treatment capabilities, acceptance of this technology may be slower than with our other cancer treatment technologies due to the relatively large scale, higher costs and complex project financing associated with implementing a proton therapy system. risks associated with this business could increase, given the heavy reliance of customers of this business on credit and large-scale project financing, which may be more difficult to obtain with the current general economic turmoil and contraction in credit markets. our future success will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. our efforts to increase awareness and adoption of our proton therapy systems may not be successful. if proton therapy fails to be effective as a treatment modality, or if proton therapy fail to become widely utilized, our orders and revenues may not materialize. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly interested in the interconnectivity and simplicity of use of our various products for treating patients. for example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products and treatment planning and information management software products are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training and education in order to use them competently and safely. the complexity and training requirements are further increased by the products capability of operating together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) tighter interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) simplifying the usability of our software products and (iii) lowering setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput, while maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers the flexibility to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. we anticipate that these efforts will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, vmat and igrt and will foster greater demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. however, we face competition from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that emphasize simplicity of use while sacrificing the ability for customers to customize the system to their individual needs, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products, or use the equipment for differing modalities of radiation therapy treatment methodologies. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach while enabling greater interconnectivity, simplicity-of-use and lowering setup and treatment times, or if we are unsuccessful in these efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance simplicity-of-use efforts and setup and treatment times, our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease. our x-ray products business segment sells products primarily to a limited number of large imaging system oem customers who incorporate our products into their medical diagnostic imaging systems and industrial imaging systems. some of these companies also manufacture x-ray tubes or flat panel detectors for their own systems. we, therefore, compete with these in-house x-ray tube and flat panel detector 27 table of contents manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated systems businesses. to succeed, we must provide x-ray tube and flat panel detector products that meet our customer demands for lower cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and performance. if we are unable to continue to innovate our x-ray products technology and anticipate our customers demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our revenues could fail to increase or could decrease as our customers purchase from their internal manufacturing operations or from other independent x-ray tube or flat panel detector manufacturers. we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers, our competitors may develop improved products or processes, or the marketplace may conclude that the tasks our products were designed to do is no longer an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the markets for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. if we are unable to develop new generations of products and enhancements to existing products, we may be unable to attract or retain customers or gain acceptance of our products by customers our success depends upon the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products. our oncology systems products are technologically complex and must keep pace with, among other things, new product introductions of our competitors. our x-ray products business segment must also continually innovate to develop products with lower cost, better product quality and superior technology and performance. accordingly, many of our products require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels. in addition, we are making significant investments in long-term growth initiatives, such as development of our sip and accel proton therapy businesses, and expect that further efforts will be necessary to develop and commercialize some of the products and technology of these businesses. these activities require significant capital commitments, involvement of our senior management and other investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. our timeline for the development of new products or enhancements may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. commercialization of new products may prove challenging, and we may be required to invest more time and money than expected to successfully introduce these products. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of new products or enhancements. in addition, a few of our research and development projects are funded by government contracts. changes in government priorities and our ability to attract similar funding may affect our overall research effort and ultimately, our ability to develop successful new products and product enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; prove feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently; 28 table of contents limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors efforts. additionally, our ability to gain healthcare market acceptance and demand for our new radiation therapy products and treatment procedures may be also affected by the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases, which are frequently fixed one or more years in advance, and which may lengthen sales and ordering timeframes. in addition, even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them available to customers. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or phase in new products, treatment systems or product enhancements. the roll-out of new products, systems and product enhancements involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation, or qsr, of the u.s. food and drug administration, or the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delayed introduction of new products, treatment systems and product enhancements. without the successful introduction of new products, systems and product enhancements, we may be unable to attract and retain customers, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. additionally, if we fail to successfully manage the transition from old products to new products, systems and product enhancements, our customers may delay or cancel orders, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. in addition, the installation times associated with new products generally are longer than with well-established products. because recognition of a portion of the revenue associated with products is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. while we will work to decrease the installation times associated with new products, such as we have done with installation times for obi, we cannot assure you that these plans will be successful or have a meaningful impact on reducing associated revenue recognition deferrals. furthermore, even if our plans to decrease installation times are successful, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues may be adversely impacted over a longer period of time, and our financial results could be adversely affected. roughly half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 52%, 51% and 49% of revenues during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support on a worldwide basis, and we have sales and service offices located in europe, asia, south america and australia. in addition, we have manufacturing and research operations in england, germany, switzerland, france, finland and china. we also invested in the 29 table of contents expansion of our china x-ray business through our acquisition of pan-pacific. we have invested and will continue to invest substantial financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure to meet the needs of our customers. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets, although we cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully in the international markets, generate new business, or meet the service and support needs of our customers there. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country legal systems; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; the fact that international regions typically have a longer period from shipment to revenue recognition resulting in greater revenue recognition deferrals, higher backlog and a lower gross margin on our products; our ability to obtain export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. historically, our international sales have had lower average selling prices and gross margins. so, as the geographic distribution of our orders and sales shifts increasingly towards our international regions, our overall rate of orders growth (measured in u.s. dollars) could slow down and overall revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected. in addition, we generally retain cash received through international operations in our local subsidiaries. as of september 26, 2008, 94% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, they could be subject to additional taxation, and we would not receive the full benefit of such repatriation. additionally, this could cause our overall tax rate to increase. this could cause our business and results of operations to suffer. our results may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates since we sell our products internationally and have international operations, we are also subject to market risk due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect product demand, our expenses and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products and services or of our expenses is made in the local currency. we manage this risk through established policies and procedures that include the use of derivative financial instruments. we have historically entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the effects of operational (sales orders) and balance sheet exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our forward exchange contracts generally range from one to twelve months in maturity. although we engage in hedging strategies that may offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide will be affected by the timing of transactions, and the effectiveness of those strategies, the number of transactions that are hedged, forecast volatility and 30 table of contents the extent of movement of foreign currency exchange rates. if our hedging strategies are not effective in offsetting the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, our revenues and other operating results may be harmed. in addition, because currencies fluctuate and we engage in hedging strategies over time, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, and therefore make comparing our financial results from period to period more difficult. also because our hedging strategy is to protect the gross margin dollars on our orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations that positively affect our revenues may result in erosion of gross margin. in addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the competitiveness of our products. even though sales of our products internationally occur predominantly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar, and some of our competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies, so our overall margins and pricing competitiveness may be adversely affected. the weakening u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years has made our pricing more competitive with our foreign competitors, which has been a contributor to our international order and revenue growth. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other countries currencies that we have experienced more recently may make our pricing less competitive and result in slower growth in our international orders and revenues, which then could negatively affect our overall financial performance and results. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of the current economic turmoil or in reaction thereto, or in the united states as a result of a change in the presidential administration, will likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and if we fail or are delayed in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals or fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be unable to distribute our products or may be subject to significant penalties our products and the products of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation, both in the united states and in foreign countries. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, nrc and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. we are also subject to similar international regulations depending on the countries we sell our devices in. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval before we, as a manufacturer of medical devices, can take orders for or sell those products in the united states. in addition, modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance. obtaining fda and/or international clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. we may fail to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the 31 table of contents product, which may limit the market for those products. if we were unable to obtain required fda and/or international approval or clearance for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business would suffer. in the past, in the u.s., our devices have either been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. the 510(k) clearance process is generally less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the pre-market approval, or pma, process. if we were required to use the pma approval process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, and could cause our business to suffer. in order for us to market our products within the european union, we must meet the ce marking requirements. a ce mark is a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product complies with the essential requirements of the applicable european laws or directives by meeting the relevant regulatory requirements and when used as intended, works properly and is acceptably safe. this conformity to the applicable directives is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body, before the ce mark can be affixed. after the ce mark is affixed to the device, which we would do once conformity is verified, the notified body would regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws or directives. ce marking is required on products in the countries of the european economic area, or eea, and provides a means for us to demonstrate that our products comply with of the laws required by the eea countries to allow free movement of trade within the eea countries. if we are unable to support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and directives to our notified body and/or competent authorities, we may risk losing our ce mark, which would prevent us from selling our products within the european union. we face similar medical device regulations in asia, specifically in china and japan. in both japan and china, we are required to obtain approvals for future products and product modifications, which could have long approval times resulting in a significant delay to our ability to market products in those countries. we may also face regulatory requirements in other countries aside from those identified, and those requirements may be more or less restrictive, and which we may not be able to meet. this may limit or prevent our ability to market our products in one or more other countries or regions. our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the fda qsr, and other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products that address a company responsibility for complying with the quality systems regulations, which include, the requirements for current good manufacturing practices. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections has issued, and in the future may issue, reports, known as form fda 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or warning letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures. if a warning letter were issued, we would be required to take prompt corrective action to come into compliance. failure to respond timely to a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities and criminal and civil fines. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors, who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. the fda and the ftc, also regulates advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions and may be required to revise our promotional claims or make other corrections or restitutions. 32 table of contents in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda and other international regulatory authorities, including reports required by the medical device reporting, or mdr regulations, and similar international adverse event reporting regulations, which require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a corrections and removals report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda and other international regulatory agencies regarding the quality and safety of our devices. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nuclear regulatory commission, or nrc, clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive international, federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among countries or regions. our manufacture, distribution installation and service of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. there can be no assurance disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products will continue to accept such materials in the future, or under terms which are favorable. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, and similar data privacy laws and regulations in foreign countries, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including, physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. if we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with fda and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or the refusal of future requests for clearance or approval; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; 33 table of contents delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; the inability to sell our products; and criminal prosecutions. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. in addition, new laws and regulations may be adopted, which adversely affect our business. there has been a trend in recent years, both in the united states and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that may flow to us as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. we face significant costs in order to comply with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products. our operations and sales of our products outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country, and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. we are also subject to laws and regulations outside the united states applicable to manufacturers of radiation-producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each case that are often comparable, if not more stringent, than regulation in the united states. in addition, our sales of products in foreign countries are subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. we may be required to incur significant time and expense in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in the applicable country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, which would adversely affect our business. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. additionally, any challenges to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. in particular, these laws influence, among other 34 table of contents things, how we structure our sales offerings, including discounts and rebate practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. moreover, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. in addition, we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. as an example, within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states of eu. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. moreover, industry associations closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or national authorities were to name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, antitrust and anti-competition laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, any violation of which could create a substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more government agencies, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body, other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products are used as part of an overall process that takes place within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance, or qa, procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. additionally, human and other errors or accidents may arise from the fact that our products operate in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operate according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to 35 table of contents patients, our customers or others for damages resulting from the faulty or allegedly faulty design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing, interoperability or the misuse of our products. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. with any accident, we could be subject to legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. furthermore, adverse publicity regarding accidents or mistreatments involving radiation therapy could adversely impact our business by negatively affecting the reputation of radiation therapy in general, causing patients to question the efficacy of radiation therapy as a viable treatment for cancer and seek other modalities of treatment. in addition, if a product we designed or manufactured were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a recall could cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. these recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or cancellation of customer orders and service contracts, could result in our incurring substantial costs and management time, losing revenues and damaging our reputation, each of which would harm our business. further, product recalls may also result in unexpected loss accruals under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america, or gaap, that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omission liability. the product liability insurance policies that we maintain are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. in the future, these policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. in addition, the insurance coverage we have obtained may not be adequate. a material claim successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited would require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. also, we believe that the rapid technological changes occurring in our markets will lead to the entry of new competitors into our markets, as well as our encountering new competitors as we apply our technologies in new market segments such as stereotactic radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to provide technologically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. our ability to compete in the radiation therapy market may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, since our products are generally sold on a total value to the customer basis. this may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant in making purchase decisions. in addition, the presence of additional competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours. these delays can extend our sales cycle and therefore adversely affect our net orders and operating results. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with siemens medical solutions, elekta ab (which recently acquired computerized medical systems, inc.), tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning 36 table of contents and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, north american scientific, inc., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. we also have begun to encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. with respect to our brachytherapy operations, our primary competitor is nucletron b.v. for the service and maintenance business for our oncology systems products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. the market for x-ray imaging components and subsystems is extremely competitive, with our competitors frequently having greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray tubes, also manufacture x-ray tubes for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and/or performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems and ge healthcare, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive and we primarily compete against perkin-elmer, inc., trixell s.a.s., and canon, inc. in our flat panel detector product line. in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states, and our major competitor in this market is nuctech company limited. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fractured. there is no single major competitor in this nondestructive testing market. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to complete the development of our commercial proton therapy system, lower our product costs, develop and provide technologically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. in the proton therapy market, we compete principally with ion beam applications s.a., hitachi medical corporation, siemens medical solutions and still river systems, inc. the presence of competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours. in each of our business segments, existing competitors actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that are or may be perceived by customers to provide a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to or operate under the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we do, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in 37 table of contents our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. interoperability of our products with one another and their compatibility with third-party products is becoming increasingly important, and if we are unable to make our products interoperate with one another or compatible with widely used third-party products, sales of our products could decrease as radiation therapy becomes more and more complex, our customers are increasingly concerned about the interoperability and compatibility of the various products they use in providing treatment to patients. for example, our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products, treatment planning and information management software products are designed to interoperate with one another, and to be compatible with other widely used third-party radiation oncology products. obtaining and maintaining this interoperability and compatibility is costly and time-consuming. when third parties modify the design or functionality of their products, it can require us to modify our products to ensure compatibility. conversely, when we implement design improvements to our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to interoperability issues; for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software network provider does not yet have a proper software interface available. in addition, our ability to obtain compatibility with third-party products can depend on the third parties providing us with adequate information regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may time their product changes, and their sharing of relevant information with us, to place us at a competitive disadvantage. further, we could be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances for any modification of our products due to interoperability issues with the products of third parties. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may be unable to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. we may incur substantial costs in protecting our intellectual property, and if we are not able to do so, our competitive position would be harmed we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources if we have to assert our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary rights. we cannot assure you that these protections will prove adequate, that agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we cannot assure you that unauthorized third parties will not use our 38 table of contents trademarks. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products the industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such dispute. we also do not maintain insurance for such intellectual property infringement. therefore, if we are unsuccessful in defending any such infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our products, or may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. we cannot assure you that any licenses required would be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all. since we depend upon a limited group of suppliers, and in some cases sole source suppliers, for some product components, the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of these components could reduce our ability to manufacture products, cause material delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs; shortages of key raw materials could have a similar effect we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the source wires for high-dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, array sensors for use in our imaging panels, sesium iodide coatings for the arrays, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other x-ray tube components. if we lose any of these suppliers or if their operations were substantially interrupted, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of such product by the fda or other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against business interruption loss, we cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. additionally, some of these suppliers, including our single-source suppliers, supply components for certain of our product lines that are growing rapidly. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of these suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product lines. shortage of and greater demand for components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs by increasing prices. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, 39 table of contents could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. in addition, we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray products, and high-grade steel and high-grade copper for the accel proton therapy business. demand for these raw materials both within the united states and from foreign countries, such as china, has increased dramatically. as a result, the availability of these raw materials has been and may continue to be limited and their prices have increased significantly. while recently, we have begun to experience a decrease in pricing, we expect that the availability and pricing of these raw materials will continue to fluctuate in the future. this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products and therefore our financial results we have begun to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics are combined through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. as customers consolidate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity. as a result, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen, as orders increase in size and require more approvals. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our net orders for these products to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in net orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. we sell our x-ray tubes to a limited number of oem customers, many of whom are also our competitors, and the loss or reduction in purchasing volume by one or more of these customers or consolidation among oems in the x-ray tube products market could reduce our sales of x-ray tube products we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, for incorporation into diagnostic imaging systems. the loss of, or reduction in purchasing volume by, one or more of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our x-ray products business. there has been a consolidation of diagnostic imaging systems manufacturers over the past few years. the ongoing consolidation of customers who purchase our x-ray tube products, including the consolidation of these customers into companies that already manufacture x-ray tubes, could result in less predictable and reduced sales of our x-ray tube products. in addition, our oem customers products, which also use our x-ray tubes, could lose market share to competitive products or technologies and, thereby, result in a reduction in our orders and revenues. we sell our linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators to oem customers who depend on customer delivery and acceptance schedules, which may cause orders for our security and inspection products to be unpredictable our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial private parties in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in the sip business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs 40 table of contents agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. however, use of linear accelerator and imaging technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. orders for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable and the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly, as it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery and acceptance schedules. in addition, our sip business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, all of which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to political changes, which may cause uncertainty and variability in the timing of orders. thus, orders in any quarter or period are not necessarily directly correlated to the level of sales or revenues in any particular future quarter or period. this unpredictability in orders, sales and revenue timing could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we are often required to educate physicians about the use of a new treatment procedure such as imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiosurgery or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products. for example, the complexity and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of imrt and igrt and the required departures from their customary practices. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiosurgery and proton therapy generally and to encourage acceptance and adoption of our products for imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiosurgery and proton therapy. the timing of our competitors introduction of products and the market acceptance of their products may also make this educational process more difficult. we cannot be sure that any products we develop will gain any significant market acceptance and market share among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if the required regulatory approvals are obtained. we may not be able to maintain or expand our business if we are not able to retain, hire and integrate sufficiently qualified personnel our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel, technical personnel and sales and marketing staff. the loss of services of key employees could adversely affect our business. competition for key personnel can be intense. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because the competition for qualified personnel is intense, costs related to compensation could increase significantly if supply decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer as a manufacturer of products with a long production cycle, we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. we cannot assure you that we 41 table of contents will be able to anticipate demand adequately or to adjust our resources appropriately. if our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which in turn may have a negative effect on our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may adversely affect our financial results. we may attempt to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technology or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, as a strategy to achieve quicker time to market for new products or technology, or to enter new markets, we may determine to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, in fiscal year 2008 we acquired pan-pacific, an independent distributor of medical x-ray tubes and other imaging components in china. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, the completion of an acquisition could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. furthermore, even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies or employees into our operations, or may not be able to realize some of the synergies expected from an acquisition. the process of integration could be expensive, time-consuming and may strain our resources. for example, we may encounter challenges in the commercialization of new products and may have to invest more than originally anticipated in order to do so, as we are experiencing with the accel proton therapy systems. these additional expenditures could be significant and could cause our results of operations to suffer. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure or eventually divest acquired businesses or assets of those businesses, such as we have decided with respect to research instruments. we cannot be certain that restructuring activities will produce the full efficiencies and benefits we expect. consequently, we may not achieve anticipated growth or other benefits from an acquisition, which could harm our existing business. if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. in this instance, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our business and financial operations. in addition, acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. we account for our acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. under this method, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and in-process research and development costs based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we determine to dispose of an acquired business, as with research instruments, we may be required to write down the value of our intangible assets and goodwill, which may harm of our financial results. 42 table of contents the acquisition or development of new lines of business may subject us to additional risks from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as proton therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting professionals to manage the new business lines, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new marketing relationships with experienced market participants. each new business may require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the new line of business into our operations. initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new line of business will be successful. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to successfully complete the sale of our research instruments business in september 2008, we approved a plan to sell research instruments. we may face difficulties and incur costs associated with this sale, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. transitioning a disposed business involves a number of risks, including but not limited to difficulties in separating operations, services, products and personnel; the potential impairment of relationships with our existing customers; the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. the sale of research instruments will require a substantial amount of management, administrative and operational resources. these demands may distract our employees from the day-to-day operation of our other businesses. the number of potential buyers for research instruments is limited, which may make it more difficult to complete the sale on reasonable terms, or at all. in addition, we have incurred and prior to the sale of research instruments may still incur additional charges associated with the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets and continuing losses from this discontinued operation, which would reduce net earnings and could be material. in addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the sale of research instruments, which could result in additional charges to the income statements related to restructuring of this operation. if we are not able to fully implement our plans for any reason, our results of operations or our operating margins may be adversely affected. completion of the sale of research instruments may restrict our ability to compete in certain market sectors it is possible that in order to sell research instruments, we may be required to agree to refrain from competing, either directly or indirectly, with the research instruments business or from entering certain market sectors for a defined period of time. we utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in foreign countries. if these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. 43 table of contents healthcare reforms, changes in healthcare policies and changes to third-party reimbursements for radiation oncology services may affect demand for our products the united states government has in the past, and may in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. state and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted such policies. these policies have included, and may in the future include, rationing of government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and imposing price controls on medical products and services providers. future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the united states or elsewhere, including those that may reduce reimbursement rates for our products or procedures using our products and those changes that may be proposed by the new u.s. presidential administration, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services and our business. a number of u.s. healthcare reforms are currently being discussed and/or proposed, but it is unclear which, if any, of these reforms might be enacted by the u.s. congress and signed into law by the new presidential administration. we are unable to predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, will be enacted in the united states or elsewhere, whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any legislation or regulation would have on our business. in addition, sales of some of our products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers for the treatment provided by those products from third-party healthcare payors, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs, private insurance plans, health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services, or cms, to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. while we believe reimbursement policies and amounts are not a major factor in our customer purchasing decisions for radiotherapy products, a dramatic change in the availability and amount of reimbursement for treatments using our products could influence our customers decisions. any sharp cuts in overall reimbursement rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy could increase uncertainty and reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. as a general matter, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical procedures or limiting or prohibiting reimbursement for specific services or devices, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems, and there is an emerging private sector. we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly net orders, revenues, and gross margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and gross margins. many of our products require significant capital 44 table of contents expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and expect this to be even greater with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the equipment and the complexity of project financing. with the current general economic turmoil and contraction in credit markets, the purchasing cycle may extend even further as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. with larger projects, such as the purchase of a proton therapy system, the contraction in credit markets could cause customers to delay or cancel their projects, or request participation in financing arrangements or payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay installation. for proton therapy products, this can delay the customer decision cycles even further. the timing of when individual orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized could have an effect our quarterly results. once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues and the timing include: delay in shipment due, for example, to longer construction projects or unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations or rescheduling by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or manufacturing difficulties; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; a change in a customer financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or appropriate regulatory approvals or authorizations. our quarterly operating results may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors pricing or discount levels; changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products; revenues becoming affected by seasonal influences; timing of revenue recognition; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by the international regions; timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors; fluctuation in our effective tax rates resulting from various factors, which may or may not be known to us in advance; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; changes in the general economic conditions or tightening of credit available to our customers in the regions in which we do business; 45 table of contents the possibility that unexpected levels of cancellations of orders may affect certain assumptions upon which we base our forecasts and predictions of future performance; the impact of changing levels of sales to sole purchasers of certain of our x-ray products; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation; misleading information in the financial community; and accounting adjustments, such as those relating to accounting reserves for product recalls, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, share-based compensation expense as required under statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), or sfas 123(r), accounting for income taxes, and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our accel proton therapy products, which are presently below the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by the rules of gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our registered independent public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. unexpected levels of cancellation of orders or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce the quarterly net orders and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. our net orders, backlog and revenues in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. our results of operations may be adversely impacted by a worldwide macroeconomic downturn in 2008, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. these conditions may make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. we cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, in general or specifically in the healthcare industry. if the healthcare market significantly deteriorates due to these macroeconomic effects, our business, financial conditions and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. the financial results of our proton therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable our proton therapy projects are highly customized and vary in size and complexity. planning for these projects will take more time and use more resources than those in the radiotherapy business conducted in our oncology systems segment. due to its relatively large scale, the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. if we are required to establish special purpose entities to finance and manage a proton therapy project, we may be 46 table of contents required to consolidate these special purpose entities in our financial statements, or guarantee performance and assume liabilities that are in excess of the project value, which could negatively impact our financial results. further, the current worldwide economic turmoil and contraction in credit markets may make it more difficult for customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request participation in financing arrangements or payment concessions in their agreements with us. in addition, due to their size and complexity, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years. as a result, the timing of these projects may vary significantly from period to period, and our operating results and the trading price of vms common stock may be adversely affected. in addition, many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require a long lead time, which may translate into an increase in our levels of inventory. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of our proton therapy business that may make it difficult to predict our operating results and to compare our financial results from period to period. this could have an adverse effect on the trading price of vms common stock. moreover, entrance into the proton therapy business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. these indemnification provisions could be limited to a percentage of the value of the project; however, due to the high dollar value of proton therapy projects, the liability that we would assume may nevertheless be substantial. additionally, while the proton therapy market is still developing and proton therapy as a treatment modality is not yet widely utilized, customers are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since each proton therapy center project may cost up to $100 million, the amount of potential liability may be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted and we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to our accel proton therapy business. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. this and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. we are in the process of upgrading and modifing our enterprise resource planning and other key software applications, which could cause unexpected problems to occur and could disrupt the management of our business we are in the process of upgrading and modifying the enterprise resource planning, or erp, system used for our worldwide operations, as well as other key software applications used in our global operations. our erp system is integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record transactions, manage our personnel records, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. the upgrade involves some process re-engineering, and has been costly, difficult and time-consuming to implement. in addition, we may encounter future difficulties, costs or other challenges with this upgrade, any of which may disrupt our business, divert management time, cause us to incur additional costs or result in significant deficiencies or material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. corrections and improvements may be required as we upgrade and modify our systems, procedures and controls, and could cause us to delay the project, incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. 47 table of contents if we fail to manage these changes effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and, as a further consequence, affect our operating results. moreover, we have capitalized the costs associated with this upgrade on our financial statements. if this project is not successful and cannot be completed, we would have to recognize the costs associated with the project as operating expenses in the quarter that we realize that it cannot be completed. this expense recognition would have an adverse impact on our operating results, and this could have an adverse effect on the trading price of vms common stock. we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a revolving credit facility that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to maintain compliance with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may have difficulty securing additional financing in the form of additional indebtedness. furthermore, if we fail to comply with these covenants, requirements or any other provision of the credit facility, we may be in default under the credit facility, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary amendments or waivers of a default. upon an event of default under our credit facility not otherwise amended or waived, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if the payment of our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform with gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board, american institute of certified public accountants, the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. additionally, as we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. for example, as a result of our adoption of fin 48, our effective tax rate and other related financial metrics have fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate more than they have in prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including those regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. for example, if we develop products that contain more software components, we may be required to recognize revenue for the software components together with the hardware components in accordance with software revenue recognition rules, which could delay recognition of some revenue. additionally, while we recognize revenue for many of our oncology systems products in accordance with staff accounting bulletin no. 104 revenue recognition and sop no. 97-2, software revenue recognition , as amended by sop no. 98-9, software revenue recognition with respect to certain agreements , we recognize revenues for certain contracts for products and services in the accel 48 table of contents proton therapy business and certain products and services in the sip business, under the percentage-of-completion method in accordance with sop 81-1, accounting for performance of construction-type and certain product type contracts , which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply this method to other businesses in the future. under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, sales and gross profit are recognized as work is performed based on the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at the completion of the contract. if a loss is expected on a contract, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. because the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, and because the estimates must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted, if our estimates are not accurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss, and our financial results could suffer. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential adjustments may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. the nature of our business exposes us to environmental claims, cleanup costs, or expenses, which could cause us to pay significant amounts we are subject to a variety of environmental laws around the world regulating the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials; these laws may create increased costs for some of our operations. although we follow procedures that we consider appropriate under existing regulations, these procedures can be costly and we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these hazardous materials; in the event of such an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. we do not maintain insurance for clean up costs or third-party claims resulting from environmental contamination which could occur in the future. we do, however, maintain insurance policies that may provide coverage for cleanup costs or third-party claims resulting from some historical occurrences of environmental contamination although this insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover these costs or claims. we could also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to comply with future changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or new laws and regulations. for example, several countries, including many in the eu, are requiring medical equipment manufacturers to bear some or all of the cost of product disposal at the end of the product useful life, thus creating increased costs for our operations. the eu has also adopted a directive that may require the adoption of restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in certain of our products sold in the eu. this directive along with another that requires material disclosure information to be provided upon request, could create increased costs for our operations. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. as a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may offer extended payment terms, which may potentially result in higher dso and greater payment defaults we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. during fiscal year 2008, customer contracts with longer or extended payment terms amounted to approximately 4% of total oncology systems revenues. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, we cannot assure you that the financial positions of these customers will not change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. in such an event, we may experience an increase in payment defaults, which will affect our net earnings. also, longer or extended payment terms have and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. 49 table of contents our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance. this coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster affecting our facilities (such as a major fire, flood or terrorist attack), or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and result in large expenses. if any of our customers facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed even further. in addition, our facilities, particularly those located in the western states of the united states, may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. the effect of terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases may negatively affect sales and hinder our operations concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and avian influenza (especially in our major markets of north america or europe) could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. since our stockholder rights plan expired, we could face a higher risk of a takeover our stockholder rights plan expires in december 2008. we may not be able to implement a similar stockholder rights plan, which could put us at risk for a take-over, distract our management and adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to two primary types of market risks: foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and typically hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not in the subsidiaries functional currency. these foreign currency sales transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria, are hedged with forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to twelve months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. 82 table of contents the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased forward exchange contracts outstanding at september 26, 2008 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate australian dollar $ 14.9 $ 0.8399 british pound 1.8 10.7 1.8677 canadian dollar 13.9 2.7 1.0303 danish krone 6.1 5.0825 euro 219.6 9.8 1.4591 indian rupee 2.6 47.2700 japanese yen 14.4 105.5800 swedish krona 7.6 6.5966 swiss franc 39.5 1.0853 totals $ 280.9 $ 62.7 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and short-term borrowings. our investment portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents and we did not have any marketable securities as of september 26, 2008. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 26, 2008 totaled $397 million with a weighted average interest rate of 2.53%. in the event that interest rates were to decrease substantially, we might reinvest a substantial portion of our investment portfolio at lower interest rates. as of september 26, 2008, we had the $100 million bofa credit facility. borrowings under the bofa credit facility accrued interest based on the libor, the federal funds rate or the bank prime rate plus a margin. in addition, the japanese bofa credit facility allowed us to borrow in japanese yen up to a maximum amount equivalent to $30 million. borrowings under this credit facility accrue interest based on the bank of japan basic loan rate. as of september 26, 2008, there were no outstanding balances under these credit facilities. on november 10, 2008, we amended and restated our revolving credit facility with bofa, the amended bofa credit facility. we increased the line of credit to $150 million and secured a portion of the facility with a pledge of stock issued by certain of our present and future subsidiaries that are deemed to be material subsidiaries under the terms of the amended bofa credit facility. as of november 10, 2008, we have pledged to bofa 65% of the voting shares that we hold in varian medical systems nederland b.v., a wholly-owned subsidiary. similar to the bofa credit facility, borrowings under the amended bofa credit facility accrue interest based on the libor or the federal funds rate or the bank prime rate plus a margin. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under these credit facilities. see detailed discussion of our credit facilities in liquidity and capital resources section in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we had $40.4 million of long-term debt outstanding at september 26, 2008 carried at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.88% with principal payments due in various installments over a six-year period. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate of our investment portfolio, short-term borrowings or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. 83 table of contents the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents and long term debts. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 397.3 $ $ $ $ $ $ 397.3 average interest rate 2.53 % 2.53 % liabilities: long-term debt $ 8.0 $ 9.0 $ 5.5 $ 11.6 $ $ 6.3 $ 40.4 average interest rate 6.90 % 6.85 % 6.80 % 7.03 % 6.70 % 6.88 % the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents (94% of which was held abroad at september 26, 2008 and could be subject to additional taxation if it was repatriated to the united states) approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the fair value of our long-term debt is estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. under this method, the fair value of our debt was estimated to be $42.2 million at september 26, 2008. we determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. however, it requires considerable judgment in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. accordingly, the fair value estimate presented is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instrument could realize in a current market exchange. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 84 table of contentsrisk factors 25 item 1b unresolved staff comments 49 item 2. properties 49 item 3. legal proceedings 49 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 50 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 51 item 6. selected financial data 53 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 55 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 84 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 138 item 9a. controls and procedures 138 item 9b. other information 138 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 139 item 11. executive compensation 139 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 140 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 140 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 140 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 141 signatures 145 2 table of contents forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k, including the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsr ( md&amp;a ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, which provides a safe harbor for statements about future events, products and future financial performance that are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and information currently available to the management of varian medical systems, inc. ( we, our or the company ). the outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results and the outcome or timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in these forward-looking statements due to the factors listed under risk factors, and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commissionr ( sec ). for this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook; market acceptance of or transition to new products or technology such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, volumetric modulated arc therapy, brachytherapy, software, treatment techniques, proton therapy and advanced x-ray products; growth drivers; future orders, revenues, backlog, earnings or other financial results; and any statements using the terms believe, expect, expectation, anticipate, can, should, would, could, estimate, appear, based on, may, intended, potential, are emerging and possible or similar statements are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and the outcome and timing of certain events to differ materially from those projected or management current expectations. by making forward-looking statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us to, update or revise those statements because of new information, future events or otherwise. part i item 1. business general we, varian medical systems, inc., are a delaware corporation and were originally incorporated in 1948 as varian associates, inc. in 1999, we transferred our instruments business to varian, inc. ( vi ), a wholly owned subsidiary, and transferred our semiconductor equipment business to varian semiconductor equipment associates, inc. ( vsea ), a wholly owned subsidiary. we retained the medical systems business, principally the sales and service of oncology products and the sales of x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems. on april 2, 1999, we spun off vi and vsea, which resulted in a non-cash dividend to our stockholders and which we refer to as the spin-offs in this annual report on form 10-k. immediately after the spin-offs, we changed our name to varian medical systems, inc. we have been involved in the medical systems business since 1959. an amended and restated distribution agreement dated as of january 14, 1999 and other associated agreements govern our ongoing relationships with vi and vsea. overview we are the world leader in the design, manufacture, sale and service of equipment and software products for treating cancer with radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy. we also design, manufacture, sell and service x-ray tubes for original equipment manufacturers ( oems ); replacement x-ray tubes; and flat panel digital image detectors for filmless x-ray imaging (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors) in medical, dental, veterinary, scientific and industrial applications. we design, manufacture, sell and service linear accelerators, digital image detectors, image processing software and image detection products for security and inspection purposes. we also develop, design, manufacture, sell and service proton therapy products and systems for cancer treatment. 3 table of contents our mission is to explore and develop radiation technology that protects and saves lives and prevents harm. we seek to be a partner for life to our clients. we use our technology to suit the needs of our clients in a variety of fields: x-ray and proton cancer therapy and radiosurgery, flat panel imagers and x-ray tubes, and port and border cargo inspection and product quality assurance. for all of our businesses, our goals are: for oncology systems, our largest business segment, and varian particle therapy (previously known as accel proton therapy), to be able to save another 100,000 lives per year by 2014 by applying new techniques to a variety of difficult to treat diseases; for our x-ray products business, another of our business segments, to provide x-ray components with lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology or performance to enable our customers to supply reliable systems capable of instantly producing sharp, detailed images; for our security &amp; inspection products ( sip ) business, to provide innovative, high-value solutions to complex security, testing and quality assurance challenges by leveraging our expertise in focused energy. oncology systems designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer. our products include linear accelerators, brachytherapy afterloaders, treatment simulation and verification equipment and accessories; as well as information management, treatment planning and image processing software. our products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer advanced treatments such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy ( imrt ), image-guided radiation therapy ( igrt ), volumetric modulated arc therapy ( vmat ), and stereotactic radiotherapy, as well as to treat patients using brachytherapy techniques, which involve temporarily implanting radioactive sources. our products are also used by neurosurgeons to perform stereotactic radiosurgery. our customers worldwide include university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors offices and cancer care clinics. x-ray products designs, manufactures and sells: (i) x-ray tubes for use in a range of applications including computed tomography ( ct ) scanning, radiographic or fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications; and (ii) flat panel digital image detectors for filmless x-ray imaging (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors), which is for radiography an alternative to image intensifier tubes for fluoroscopy and x-ray film and computed radiography ( cr ) systems. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are sold to large imaging system oem customers that incorporate them into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary, igrt and industrial imaging systems. our x-ray tubes are also sold directly to end-users for replacement purposes. we have three other businesses that we report together under the other category. our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products (including intellx tm ) for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination in a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems. our varian particle therapy (previously known as accel proton therapy) business develops, designs, manufactures and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiation therapy using proton beams for the treatment of cancer. our current focus is commercializing the proton therapy system and bringing our expertise in traditional radiation therapy to proton therapy to improve its clinical utility and to reduce its cost per patient. the ginzton technology center ( gtc ) develops technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including technology to improve radiation therapy and x-ray imaging and tubes, as well as other technology for a variety of applications, including security and cargo screening. 4 table of contents in september 2008, we approved a plan to sell the scientific research instruments business ( research instruments ) that we acquired as part of our acquisition of accel instruments gmbh ( accel, which has since changed its name to varian medical systems particle therapy gmbh) in order to focus our efforts on the development of the proton therapy systems portion of the business. the sale of research instruments was completed in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. research instruments is classified as a discontinued operation. for additional information, see discontinued operations below. our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the factors described in risk factors in conjunction with the description of our business set forth below and the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. radiation therapy and the cancer-care market radiation therapy, also referred to as radiotherapy, is the use of certain types of focused energy (radiation) to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors, with the goal of damaging as many cancer cells as possible, while limiting harm to nearby healthy tissue. radiotherapy is commonly used either alone or in combination with surgery or chemotherapy. one important advantage is that radiation acts selectively on replicating cells. when a cell absorbs radiation, the radiation affects the cell genetic structure and inhibits its replication, leading to its gradual death. cancerous cells must replicate in order to cause disease; therefore the radiation cancer cells absorb can disproportionately damage them compared to normal cells. the process for delivering radiotherapy typically consists of examining the patient, planning the treatment, simulating and verifying the treatment plan, providing quality assurance for the equipment and software, delivering the treatment, verifying that the treatment was delivered correctly, recording the history and results of the treatment and obtaining reimbursement for the radiotherapy services provided. the team responsible for delivering the radiotherapy treatment generally comprises a physician specializing in radiation oncology, a physicist for planning the treatment and a radiation therapist for operating the machines. the most common form of radiotherapy involves delivering x-ray beams from outside of the patient body, a process sometimes referred to as external beam radiotherapy. a device called a linear accelerator generates the x-ray beams and administers the treatment by rotating around a patient lying on a treatment couch and delivering the x-ray beam to the tumor from different angles in order to concentrate radiation at the tumor while at the same time minimizing the dose delivered to the surrounding healthy tissue. conventional radiotherapy typically involves multiple, or fractionated, treatments of a tumor in up to 50 radiation sessions. the linear accelerator may also deliver electron beams for the treatment of more diseases closer to the body surface. imrt is an advanced form of external beam radiotherapy in which the shape, intensity and angle of the radiation beams from a linear accelerator are varied, or modulated, across the target area while the patient is being treated. this form of radiotherapy conforms the radiation beams more closely to the shape of the tumor and allows physicians to deliver higher doses of radiation than conventional radiation, while more effectively limiting the amount of radiation delivered to nearby healthy tissue. in this way, clinicians can design and administer an individualized treatment plan for each patient, targeting the tumor as closely as a few millimeters. imrt can be used to treat head and neck, breast, prostate, pancreatic, lung, liver, gynecological and central nervous system cancers. imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment for cancer, and more treatment centers, from university hospitals to local community clinics, adopt imrt for their treatments every year. we are a leading global provider of products that enable imrt treatment of cancer. igrt is another advanced form of external beam radiotherapy complementing imrt to enhance treatments. while imrt helps physicians shape the beam to the tumor, igrt goes further in allowing physicians to accommodate for a tumor moving or shrinking. this enables the delivery of even higher doses of radiation to tumors in a more effective manner, while sparing even more of the surrounding healthy tissue. igrt technologies compensate for daily changes and movements in tumors and enable 5 table of contents dynamic, real-time visualization and precise treatment of small, moving and changing tumors with greater intensity and accuracy. with the greater precision offered by igrt, clinics and hospitals are potentially able to improve outcomes by concentrating even still higher doses of radiation at the tumors. we believe igrt has become an accepted standard for treatment in the radiation oncology market. stereotactic radiosurgery (also referred to as stereotactic body radiotherapy) is an advanced radiation treatment procedure that employs linear accelerators and imrt/igrt technology to deliver very precisely placed, high dose beams of radiation to eradicate cancerous, non-cancerous and abnormal lesions anywhere in the body. radition therapists and surgeons are recognizing stereotactic radiosurgery as a useful tool in curative radiation therapy. vmat is a significant advancement in imrt that allows physicians to control three parameters simultaneously: (i) the rate at which the linear accelerator gantry rotates around the patient, (ii) the beam-shaping aperture and (iii) the rate at which the radiation dose is delivered to the patient. this creates a finely-shaped imrt dose distribution that more closely matches the size and shape of the tumor. vmat improves treatment precision by sparing more healthy tissue, makes treatments faster and offers the possibility of greater comfort for patients. our rapidarc tm radiotherapy products plan and deliver vmat treatments. physicians, hospitals and clinics place additional value on radiotherapy equipment and treatments, such as vmat, that enable shorter treatment times and greater patient throughput. from the patients standpoint, shorter treatment times can mean greater comfort since treatments often involve the patient being immobilized on the treatment couch. shorter treatment sessions decrease waiting times and, since treatments are delivered in fractions over the course of many days, can mean fewer disruptions to a patient daily routine. from the physicians and hospitals standpoint, shorter treatment times can lessen the chance of a tumor moving during treatment and can increase patient throughput. shorter treatment times and increased patient throughput can increase the number of treatments per day (which is a particular concern in countries with lower numbers of treatment machines per capita), and, as a result, can decrease the cost per treatment which in turn can offer greater access to advanced care to more patients. dynamic adaptive radiotherapy ( dart ) is our vision of the future for radiotherapy treatments where better clinical practices and outcome are achieved through use of imaging, planning and delivery of radiation. current image guidance technologies, including on-board imager &reg; ( obi ) and cone-beam computerized tomography ( cbct ), allow for imaging the patient immediately prior to treatment, while in the treatment position. dart would enable imaging during treatment, allowing clinicians to take real-time account of patient and tumor motion, breathing, and anatomical and physiological changes that occur during the course of treatment. product enhancements that allow for cost-efficient decision support, as well as data collection and analysis for the development of more broadly shared treatment standards, are expected to also be key aspects of dart. we expect that these guiding principles will contribute to continuing product development and business growth for our oncology systems business. an alternative to external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy involves the insertion of radioactive seeds, wires or ribbons directly into a tumor or into a body cavity close to the cancerous area. these techniques, unlike external beam radiation therapy, do not require the radiation to pass through surrounding healthy tissue in order to reach the tumor, and the physician can prescibe a higher total dose of radiation in a shorter time. brachytherapy is often used for cancers of the head and neck, breast, uterus, cervix, soft tissue and prostate. proton therapy is another form of external beam radiotherapy that uses proton beams generated with a cyclotron rather than x-ray beams from a linear accelerator. a proton beam signature energy distribution curve, also known as the bragg peak, allows for greater accuracy in targeting tumor cells with an even lower dose to nearby healthy tissue than may be delivered with x-ray beams from a linear accelerator. this makes proton therapy a preferred option for treating certain kinds of cancers, 6 table of contents particularly tumors near critical structures such as the optic nerve and cancers in children. although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to the cost of the technology and limited cost effectiveness. we have entered the proton therapy market because we believe we can apply our experience in traditional radiotherapy to proton therapy, reducing cost per patient for existing clinical applications and expanding the use of proton therapy into a broader array of cancer types. we believe that proton therapy will over time become a more widely accepted method of treatment. the radiation oncology market is growing globally due to a number of factors. annual cancer rates around the world are projected to increase by 50% to 15 million new cases in the year 2020, as indicated by the world cancer report issued by the international agency for research on cancer in the world health organization. according to the world cancer report, the predicted increase in new cases will mainly be due to steadily aging populations in both developed and developing countries due to current trends in smoking prevalence and the growing adoption of unhealthy life styles. for example, the u.s. census report indicates that the population over 65 years of age in the united states is expected to increase by 41% to 48 million in 2015 from 34 million in 2000. the u.s. chart data from the national cancer institute surveillance, epidemiology, and end results program also indicates that the number of cancers diagnosed annually could double in the united states to 2.6 million by 2050. the rise in cancer cases, together with the increase in sophistication of new treatment processes, have created demand for more automated products that can be integrated into clinically practical systems to make treatments more rapid and cost effective. technology advances leading to improvements in patient care, the availability of more advanced, automated and efficient clinical tools in radiation therapy, the advent of more precise forms of radiotherapy treatment (such as imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, brachytherapy and, ultimately, proton therapy), and developing technology and equipment that enable treatments (such as vmat) which reduce treatment times and increase patient throughput should drive the demand for our radiation therapy products and services. international markets in particular are under-equipped to address the growing cancer incidence. patients in many foreign countries must frequently endure long waits for radiotherapy, although many of these countries are now expanding and upgrading their radiotherapy services. this capacity shortfall, coupled with ever increasing incidences of cancer, represent additional drivers for our continued growth in international markets. as a u.s.-based company, the competitiveness of our product pricing is influenced by the fluctuation of the u.s. dollar against other currencies. in fiscal year 2009, the u.s. dollar was stronger against foreign currencies than in fiscal year 2008, which made our product pricing less competitive. however, the u.s. dollar has subsequently weakened, which could make our product pricing more competitive in the local currencies of our international customers. the fluctuation of the u.s dollar against foreign currencies also impacts our international revenues and net orders when measured in u.s. dollars. products oncology systems our oncology systems business segment is the leading provider of advanced hardware and software products for radiation treatment of cancer with conventional radiation therapy, imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy. oncology systems products address each major aspect of the radiotherapy process, including linear accelerators and accessory products for positioning the patient and delivering the x-ray beam; brachytherapy afterloaders; treatment planning software; treatment simulation and verification equipment and accessories and quality assurance software for simulating and verifying the treatment plans before treatment and verifying that a treatment was delivered correctly afterwards; and information management software for recording the history and results of treatments and other patient treatment information and data, including patient x-ray images. 7 table of contents the focus of our oncology systems business is addressing the key concerns of the market for advanced cancer care systems; improving efficiency, precision, cost-effectiveness, comfort to the patient and ease of delivery of these treatments; and providing greater access to advanced treatments. a core element of our business strategy is to provide our customers with highly versatile, clinically proven products that are interoperable and can be configured and integrated into automated systems that combine greater precision, shorter treatment times and greater cost effectiveness and that improve the entire process of treating a patient. our products and accessories for imrt and igrt allow clinicians to track and treat tumors using very precisely shaped beams, targeting the tumor as closely as currently possible and allowing the delivery of higher doses to the tumor while limiting exposure of nearby healthy tissue. with our treatment planning, verification and information management software products, a patient treatment plans, treatment data and images are recorded and stored in a single database shared by each of our products, which enables effective communication among products. additionally, the precision and versatility of our products and technology makes it possible to use radiotherapy to treat metastatic cancers. our products also allow multiple medical specialties radiation oncology, neurosurgery, radiographic imaging and medical oncology to share equipment, resources and information in a more cost-effective manner. furthermore, the ability of our products and technology to interoperate with each other and to interconnect into automated systems allows physicians to schedule and treat more patients within a set time period, which adds to the cost-effectiveness of our equipment. linear accelerators are the core device for delivering conventional external beam radiotherapy with imrt, igrt and vmat treatments, and we produce versions of these devices to suit various requirements. our clinac &reg; medical linear accelerators are used to treat cancer by producing therapeutic electrons and x-ray beams that target tumors and other abnormalities. the clinac ix linear accelerators are designed for more streamlined and advanced treatment processes including imrt and igrt. we also produce the trilogy linear accelerator, designed to be a versatile, cost-effective, ultra-precise device with a faster dose delivery rate and smaller isocenter compared to the clinac ix. trilogy was developed with igrt and stereotactic radiotherapy in mind, but is also capable of delivering conventional, 3d conformal radiotherapy, imrt and vmat. trilogy has the precision necessary to deliver stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments and is the accelerator that is at the core of the novalis tx tm product offering, a combination of products from varian and brainlab ag ( brainlab ), targeted to neurosurgeons. in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we introduced the unique tm low-energy linear accelerator, which is capable of integrating our accessory products (including rapidarc) to deliver imrt, igrt and vmat. the unique accelerator was developed to address more price sensitive markets in international regions. we also manufacture and market linear accelerator accessories that enhance efficiency and enable delivery of advanced treatments such as imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and vmat. our millennium series of multi-leaf collimators and high definition 120 ( hd 120 ) multi-leaf collimators are used with a linear accelerator to define the size, shape and intensity of the generated beams. portalvision , our electronic portal-imager, is used to verify a patient position while on the treatment couch, which is critical for accurate treatments and simplifies quality assurance of individual treatment plans. we also offer an innovative real-time patient position monitoring product, the rpm respiratory gating system, which allows the linear accelerator to be synchronized with patient breathing to help compensate for tumor motion during the course of treatment. our igrt accessories include the obi hardware accessory affixed to the linear accelerator that allows dynamic, real-time imaging of tumors while the patient is on the treatment couch and a cbct imaging software accessory that works with the obi to allow patient positioning based on soft-tissue anatomy. using sophisticated image analysis tools, the cbct scan can be compared with a reference ct scan taken previously to determine how the treatment couch should be adjusted to fine-tune and verify the patient treatment setup and positioning prior to delivery of the radiation. therefore, to deliver the most advanced forms of igrt, our accelerators would typically have an obi, cbct, portalvision and 8 table of contents other igrt-related hardware and software as accessories. we also have in our product portfolio the sonarray ultrasound imaging device for patient positioning and stereotactic treatment planning software for use in developing treatment plans for stereotactic radiosurgery. our rapidarc radiotherapy products enable the planning and delivery of image-guided imrt in a single continuous rotation of up to 360 degrees rather than as a series of fixed fields. our rapidarc products enable faster delivery of radiation treatment with the possibility of greater comfort to the patient, reduced opportunity for tumor movement during treatment and greater patient throughput, resulting in lower cost per patient for the hospital or clinic. rapidarc radiotherapy products are a proprietary implementation of vmat that coordinates beam shaping, dose rate and gantry speed to deliver a highly conformal dose distribution to the target tumor. we believe rapidarc represents a significant advancement in imrt cancer treatment and can help drive longer term demand for our linear accelerators and imrt-related accessories. our treatment planning and information management software products enhance and enable the delivery of advanced radiotherapy treatments, from the initial treatment planning and plan quality assurance verification to the post-treatment recording of data and storing of patient information. prior to any treatment, particularly imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiosurgery or one using rapidarc, physicians must plan the course of radiation delivery for the patient. we offer a range of treatment planning products that assist physicians in compiling this plan. our eclipse treatment planning system provides physicians with 3d image viewing, treatment simulation, radiation dosage calculation and verification and other tools for generating treatment delivery plans for the patient. the eclipse software utilizes a sophisticated technique known as inverse planning to enable physicians to rapidly develop optimal treatment plans based on a desired radiation dose outcome to the tumor and surrounding tissue. in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, we acquired certain assets of ikoemed llc and ikoetech llc (collectively referred to as ikoe ) which are privately-owned suppliers of software used to enhance treatment planning. the acquired software, which is being incorporated into some of our oncology systems software products, complements the segmentation tools we currently supply to automate planning for prostate, breast and lung treatments. our argus software manages the planning, recording and analysis of quality assurance data for linear accelerators. finally, our aria oncology information management system ( aria ) is a comprehensive real-time information management system and database that records and verifies radiotherapy treatments carried out on the linear accelerator, records and stores patient data relating to chemotherapy treatment which may be prescribed by a physician in addition to radiotherapy, performs patient charting and manages patient information and patient image data. this gives clinics and hospitals the ability to manage treatment and patient information across radiation oncology and medical oncology procedures. also, because aria is an electronic medical record, it can enable users to operate filmless and paperless oncology departments and cancer clinics. our treatment simulators enable physicians to simulate radiation therapy treatments prior to delivery. we manufacture and sell acuity , a simulator that uses advanced amorphous silicon imaging technology and which has been designed to enhance imrt treatments by integrating simulation more closely with treatment planning and by helping physicians better address tumor motion caused by breathing. in addition to offering our own suite of equipment and software products for planning and delivering radiotherapy treatments, we have partnered with selected leaders in certain segments of the radiation therapy and radiosurgery market. with general electric medical systems ( ge ) in north america, we have established the see and treat cancer care program for radiation therapy that allows us to offer a suite of diagnostic and cancer treatment tools combining our comprehensive set of radiation therapy products with ge advanced diagnostic imaging systems. we have also established a strategic relationship with brainlab for the sale and marketing of the novalis tx, a radiosurgical suite of products targeted to neurosurgeons that integrates our trilogy tx linear accelerator and our hd 120 9 table of contents multi-leaf collimator with specialty positioning and software products offered by brainlab. novalis tx works with a variety of our other accessory products, including our obi, eclipse treatment planning system and aria information management software. we have a 2.5% equity ownership in brainlab. our brachytherapy operations design, manufacture, sell and service advanced brachytherapy products, including varisource hdr afterloaders and gammamed hdr/pdr afterloaders, brachyvision brachytherapy treatment planning system, applicators and accessories. brachytherapy also develops and markets the variseed ldr prostate treatment planning system. revenues from our oncology systems business segment represented 81%, 81% and 82% of total revenues for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. our oncology systems business segment revenues also include service revenues. see customer services and support. for a discussion of oncology systems business segment financial information, see note 15, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. x-ray products our x-ray products business segment is a world leader in designing and manufacturing x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors, which are key components of x-ray imaging systems. we sell our products to oems for new system configurations and replacement x-ray tubes for installed systems. we conduct an active research and development program to focus on new technology and applications in both the medical and industrial x-ray imaging markets. we manufacture x-ray tubes for four primary medical diagnostic radiology applications: ct scanners, radiographic or fluoroscopic imaging, special procedures and mammography. we also offer a large line of industrial x-ray tubes, which consist of analytical x-ray tubes used for x-ray fluorescence and diffraction, as well as tubes used for non-destructive imaging and gauging and airport baggage inspection systems. our flat panel detectors, which are based on amorphous silicon imaging technologies, have found broad application as an alternative to image intensifier tubes and x-ray film. these flat panel detectors are being incorporated into next generation filmless medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial inspection imaging systems and also serve as a key component of our obi, which helps enable igrt. we believe that imaging equipment based on amorphous silicon technologies is more stable and reliable, needs fewer adjustments and suffers less degradation over time than image intensifier tubes and is more cost effective than x-ray film. in fiscal year 2009, we expanded our product offering of flat panel detectors with the addition of a family of radiographic panels. these panels may be used on digital radiography systems or may be used to convert film-based systems to digital systems. our radiographic flat panels were a key contributor to net order and revenue growth for x-ray products in fiscal year 2009. revenues from x-ray products represented 15% of total revenues in each of fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007. for a discussion of the x-ray products business segment financial information, see note 15, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. other our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination in a variety of applications. the linatron m-i is a dual energy accelerator that can perform non-intrusive inspection of cargo containers and aid in automatically detecting and alerting operators when high-density nuclear materials associated with dirty bombs or weapons of mass destruction are present during cargo screening. the linatron k-15 is a high-energy accelerator for inspection of very large, dense objects, including, for example, the solid rocket boosters on nasa space shuttle. intellx is an imaging product for cargo screening. 10 table of contents generally, we sell our sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies who use them in overseas ports and borders to screen for contraband, weapons, stowaways, narcotics and explosives, as well as for manifest verification. we also sell our sip products to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries for nondestructive product examination purposes, such as industrial inspection and manufacturing quality control. use of our sip technology in security cargo screening and border protection is still in its early stages, but we believe demand for our sip products will be driven by cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify the content of shipments for assessing duties and taxes. as a result, this business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities and therefore depends on government budgets and appropriations and is subject to political change. in addition, this business depends on the success of our oem customers. orders and revenues for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or with our oem customers over a short period of time and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. our varian particle therapy business develops, designs, manufactures and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiotherapy using proton beams for the treatment of cancer. although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to the cost of the technology and limited cost effectiveness. we are investing substantial resources to commercialize this advanced proton technology and to build this new business. in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we met the conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;enne ( ce ) mark requirements that permit us to market our proton therapy systems within the european economic area ( eea ), and patient treatments started on our proton therapy system that is installed at the rinecker proton therapy center in munich, germany. proton therapy facilities are large scale construction projects that can take three years or more to complete. with the cost of a multiple-gantry system in excess of $60 million and the total cost for each proton therapy center exceeding $100 million, significant customer investment and perhaps complex project financing will be required. consequently, the customers decision-making cycle is very long and orders for proton therapy systems generally involve many contingencies. gtc, our scientific research facility, continues to invest in developing technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital x-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, and improved x-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. in addition, gtc is developing technologies and products that are designed to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy. sip, varian particle therapy and gtc report their results from operations as part of the other category. combined revenues from these operations represented 4%, 4% and 3% of total revenues in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively. for a discussion of segment financial information, see note 15, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. customer services and support we maintain service centers in milpitas, california; las vegas, nevada; des plaines, illinois; clark, new jersey; marietta, georgia; richardson, texas; corona, california; buc, france; crawley, united kingdom; zug, switzerland; copenhagen, denmark; brussels, belgium; darmstadt, germany; houten, the netherlands; madrid, spain; milan, italy; manama, bahrain; moscow, russia; mumbai, delhi, and chennai, india; tokyo and osaka, japan; beijing, shanghai and hong kong, china; kuala lumpur, malaysia; singapore; bangkok, thailand; belrose, australia; and sao paulo, brazil; as well as field 11 table of contents service personnel throughout the world for oncology systems customer support services. key oncology systems logistics and education operations are located in las vegas, nevada, beijing, china and zug, switzerland. our network of service engineers and customer support specialists provide installation, warranty, repair, training and support services, and professional services. we generate service revenues by providing services to customers on a time-and-materials basis and through post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts. most of the field service engineers are our employees, but our products are serviced by employees of dealers and/or agents in a few foreign countries. customers can access our extensive service network by calling any of our service centers. we warrant most of our oncology systems products for parts and labor for 12 months, and we offer a variety of post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts to suit customers requirements. we believe customer service and support are an integral part of our oncology systems competitive strategy. growth in our service revenues has resulted from the increasing customer adoption of service contracts as the sophistication and installed base of our products increase. we also believe superior service plays an important role in marketing and selling medical products and systems, particularly as the products become more complex. nevertheless, some of our customers use their own internal service organizations and/or independent service organizations to service equipment after the warranty period expires and therefore do not enter into agreements with us for extended service. we generally warrant our x-ray tubes and flat panel detector products in our x-ray products business segment for 12 to 24 months, although for some x-ray tubes the warranty period is based on the number of times the product is used. we provide technical advice and consultation for x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems products to major oem customers from our offices in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; tokyo, japan; beijing, china and willich, germany. our applications specialists and engineers make recommendations to meet the customer technical requirements within the customer budgetary constraints. we often develop specifications for a unique product, which will be designed and manufactured to meet a specific customer requirements. we also maintain a technical customer support group in charleston, south carolina to meet the technical support requirements of independent tube installers that use our x-ray tube products. we generally warrant our sip products for 12 months. we provide technical support and service for these products to major oem customers from our offices in las vegas, nevada; lincolnshire, illinois; and buc, france; manama, kingdom of bahrain; crawley, united kingdom; milano, italy; and brussels, belgium. we use the oncology systems customer support services organization in asia, australia and south america. marketing and sales we employ a combination of direct sales forces and independent distributors or resellers in north america, europe, australia and major parts of asia and latin america for the marketing and sales of our products worldwide. in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we did not have a single customer that represented 10% or more of our total revenues. for our oncology systems segment, we sell direct in north america and use a combination of direct sales and independent distributors in international regions. we have also launched direct-to-consumer advertising campaigns to increase consumer awareness of oncology systems products. we sell our oncology systems products primarily to university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, physicians offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. these hospitals, institutes, agencies, physicians offices and clinics replace equipment and upgrade treatment capability as technology evolves. sales cycles for our external beam radiotherapy products typically can be quite lengthy since many of them are considered capital equipment and are affected by budgeting cycles. our customers frequently fix capital budgets one or more years in advance. 12 table of contents in recent years, we have seen the purchasing cycle lengthen as a result of the more complex decision-making process associated with larger dollar value transactions for more sophisticated igrt and surgical equipment, and other technical advances. with the current worldwide economic downturn, it has become and may continue to be more difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. we have seen customers decision-making process further complicated and lengthened, especially in the united states, as the downturn causes hospitals, clinics and research institutions to more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending in light of tightened capital budgets, tougher credit requirements and the general constriction in credit availability. in addition, we believe that the current economic downturn has caused customers to delay requested delivery dates. because our product revenues are influenced by the timing of product shipments, which are tied to customer-requested delivery dates, these delivery delays have increased the average order to revenue conversion cycle in the united states. historically, this conversion cycle has been longer when new products are introduced or when we sell more products internationally. the lengthening of order to revenue conversion cycle could reduce our revenues and margins in the current period and increase our deferred revenues. in addition, our receivables may take longer to collect. reimbursement rates in the united states have generally supported a favorable return on investment for the purchase of new radiotherapy equipment. while we believe that improved product functionality, greater cost-effectiveness and prospects for better clinical outcomes with new capabilities such as imrt, igrt and vmat tend to drive demand for radiotherapy products, large changes in reimbursement rates or reimbursement structure can affect customer demand and cause market shifts. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding the recent proposed reduction in medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery at free-standing clinics in the united states and for physician reimbursement for radiation oncology. while the final enacted reimbursement rate reductions for 2010, which were announced by the u.s. centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) on october 30, 2009, were much more modest for radiotherapy than originally proposed, we believe that the confusion and uncertainty created by the proposal was one of the major factors negatively impacting our net orders in late fiscal year 2009, particularly from free-standing radiotherapy clinics (which we believe represents approximately 10% to 15% of oncology systems business). international reimbursement rates for radiation therapy tend to be low in national health systems, yet international markets continue to invest in better treatment capability, albeit often after it has been proven in the north american region or in other leading research centers worldwide. total oncology systems revenues, including service revenues, were $1.8 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we divide our market segments for oncology systems revenues into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 54%, 29%, 14%, and 3%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2009; 52%, 31%, 12% and 5%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2008 and 52%, 32%, 11% and 5%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2007. our x-ray products segment employs a combination of direct sales and independent distributors for sales in all of its regions and sells a high proportion of its products to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their imaging systems. the fundamental growth driver of this business segment is the on-going success of our key customers, and we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of x-ray products revenues in the foreseeable future. our oem customers include toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems, ge healthcare, carestream health, inc., sound technologies, inc. and imaging sciences international, inc. the current economic downturn has made and may continue to make it difficult for these customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and we saw our x-ray products net orders and revenues negatively impacted in fiscal year 2009 as a result of inventory reduction efforts by some of these customers. these oem customers represented 60%, 62% and 63% of our total x-ray products segment revenues during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, with the remaining revenues coming from a large number of small oems and independent services companies. total 13 table of contents revenues for our x-ray products segment were $331 million, $305 million and $258 million for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we divide our market segments for x-ray products revenues by region into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 33%, 15%, 49% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2009; 35%, 15%, 47% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2008 and 37%, 14%, 46% and 3% respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2007. our sip business also uses a combination of direct sales and independent distributors and sells a high proportion of its products to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their systems. as with x-ray products, this business depends on the success of our oem customers, and we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of sip revenues in the foreseeable future. we supply linatron linear accelerators and detector products to oems such as smiths detection, rapiscan systems, inc., american science &amp; engineering, inc. and l-3 communications. we also sell our sip products to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. in fiscal year 2009, we saw our sip customers postpone some purchasing decisions as budgets were put on hold or reallocated during the current economic downturn. in the varian particle therapy business, we use direct sales specialist representatives who collaborate globally with our oncology systems sales group on projects. potential customers are government-sponsored hospitals and research institutions and research universities, which typically purchase products through public tenders, and, to a lesser extent, private hospitals and clinics. we believe that growth in this business will initially develop in the major metropolitan areas in the united states and abroad, driven by institutions that wish to expand their clinical offerings and increase their profile in their respective communities. proton therapy facilities, nevertheless, are large-scale construction projects and may involve complex project financing. given the heavy reliance of customers of this business on credit and large-scale project financing, this business is the most vulnerable to the general worldwide economic downturn and contraction in the credit markets. also, the customers decision-making cycle is very long, and orders for proton therapy systems generally involve many contingencies. under our current practice, we only recognize orders with contingencies if we deem the contingencies perfunctory or if we publicly disclose the existence and nature of material contingencies. in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, skandion kliniken awarded us, in a competitive bidding situation, an approximately $62 million contract to deliver and install a proton therapy system in sweden, and we have included this contract in net orders. however, one of the unsuccessful bidders has filed a formal appeal of the award. skandion kliniken is actively opposing this appeal, and we believe it will be resolved in skandion kliniken favor. additionally, the order is contingent on skandion kliniken execution of a contract for the construction of the proton therapy facility, which we also believe will occur. as this is the first proton therapy system to be delivered by varian particle therapy since we acquired this business from accel, the profitability of this contract is uncertain. we plan to start recognizing revenues in accordance with contract accounting when we commence working on this project. as varian particle therapy is a relatively new business that offers highly customized proton therapy systems, we plan to evaluate revenue recognition for sales of proton therapy systems and related services on a contract by contract basis. competition rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the market for radiation therapy equipment and software products, including our oncology systems products. we compete with companies worldwide. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. our smaller competitors could be acquired by companies with greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. some of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements 14 table of contents and result in less predictable and reduced revenues. furthermore, we believe that new competitors will enter our markets, just as we encounter new competitors as we move into new areas such as stereotactic radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) greater interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) enhancing the ease of use of our software products and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput. we have emphasized maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation therapy. we anticipate that these efforts will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, vmat and igrt and will stimulate demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. we face competition though from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our financial results could suffer. our oncology systems customers equipment purchase considerations typically include: reliability, servicing, patient throughput, precision, price, payment terms, connectivity, clinical features, the ability to track patient referral, long-term relationship with customers and capabilities of customers existing equipment. we believe we compete favorably with our competitors based upon our strategy of providing a complete package of products and services in the field of radiation oncology and our continued commitment to global distribution and customer service, value-added manufacturing, technological leadership and new product innovation. we strive to provide technically superior, clinically proven products for substantially all aspects of radiation therapy that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes that meet or exceed customer quality and service expectations. however, our ability to compete may be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, since our products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer. this may occur if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations that focus solely on pricing as the primary determinant. if customers make purchase decisions based solely on price, our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins, as well as our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins, could be adversely impacted. we are the leading provider of medical linear accelerators and related accessories. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab, siemens medical solutions, tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, best theratronics, ltd., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. we also encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. with respect to our brachytherapy operations, our primary competitor is nucletron b.v. for the service and maintenance business for our oncology systems products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. the market for x-ray imaging components and subsystems is extremely competitive, with our competitors frequently having greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray tubes and panels, also manufacture x-ray components for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and/or performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems and ge healthcare, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and 15 table of contents the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. we incorporate our flat panel detectors into our equipment for igrt within our oncology systems and also sell to a number of oems, which incorporate our flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. our amorphous silicon based flat panel detector technology competes with other detector technologies such as amorphous selenium, charge-coupled devices and variations of amorphous silicon scintillators. we believe that our product provides a competitive advantage due to lower product cost and better product quality and performance. for flat panel detectors, our significant customers include toshiba corporation, sound technologies, inc., carestream health, inc., and imaging sciences international inc., and we primarily compete against perkin-elmer, inc., trixell s.a.s., samsung electronics and canon, inc. we generally sell our sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we compete with other oem suppliers primarily located outside of the united states in the security and inspection market, and our major competitor is nuctech company limited. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fractured and there is no single major competitor in this nondestructive testing market. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to complete the development of our commercial proton therapy system, lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. in the proton therapy market, we compete principally with ion beam applications s.a., hitachi medical corporation and still river systems, inc. research and development developing products, systems and services based on advanced technology is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. we maintain a research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. research and development expenses totaled $147 million, $136 million and $117 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. our research and development are conducted both within the relevant product groups of our businesses and through gtc. gtc maintains technical expertise in x-ray technology, accelerator technology, imaging physics and applications, algorithms and software, electronic design, materials science and biosciences to prove feasibility of new product concepts and to improve current products. present research topics include new imaging concepts, image-based radiotherapy treatment planning and delivery, real time accommodation of moving targets, functional imaging and combined modality therapy, manufacturing process improvements, improved x-ray tubes and large-area, high resolution digital x-ray sensor arrays for cone-beam ct and other applications. gtc is also pursuing the potential of combining advances in directed energy and imaging technology with the latest breakthroughs in biotechnology by employing targeted energy to enhance the effectiveness of biological and chemical therapeutic agents. gtc is also investigating the use of x-ray and high energy accelerator, detector, and image processing technology for security applications. gtc accepts some sponsored research contracts from external agencies such as the u.s. government or private sources. within oncology systems, our development efforts focus on enhancing the reliability and performance of existing products and developing new products. this development is conducted primarily in the united states, switzerland, canada, england, finland and india. in addition, we support research and development programs at selected hospitals and clinics. current areas for development within oncology systems include linear accelerator systems and accessories for medical applications, information systems, radiation treatment planning software, image processing software, imaging devices, simulation, patient 16 table of contents positioning and equipment diagnosis and maintenance tools. much of the oncology systems development efforts relate to our next generation linear accelerators; enhancements to igrt and imrt; our monte carlo and dose calculation algorithms for our treatment planning software products; and our new electronic health records within our information management software. within x-ray products, development is conducted at our salt lake city, utah and mountain view, california facilities and is primarily focused on developing and improving x-ray imaging component and subsystem products. current x-ray tube development areas include improvements to tube life and tube stability and reduction of tube noise. we are also working on x-ray tube designs which will operate at higher power loadings and at higher ct rotational speed to enhance the performance of next generation ct scanners as well as x-ray tubes to enhance the performance of our flat panel detectors. research in flat panel imaging technology is aimed at developing new panel technologies for low cost radiographic imaging, flexible panel interfaces, cone beam ct, and high speed multi-slice ct detectors. we expect that, in order to realize the full potential of the varian particle therapy business, we will need to invest substantial resources to properly develop and commercialize proton therapy technology and build this new business. manufacturing and supplies we manufacture our medical linear accelerators in palo alto, california and in beijing, china. our treatment simulator systems and some accelerator subsystems are manufactured in crawley, united kingdom and some of our other accessory products in baden, switzerland; helsinki, finland; toulouse, france and winnipeg, canada. we manufacture our high dose rate brachytherapy systems in crawley, united kingdom and haan, germany and our brachytherapy treatment planning products in charlottesville, virginia. our sip linear accelerators and certain radiographic products are manufactured in las vegas, nevada, and lincolnshire, illinois. we manufacture components and sub-systems for our proton therapy products and systems in bergisch gladbach and troisdorf, germany, and we plan to develop additional manufacturing facilities as needed for this business. we manufacture our x-ray imaging component and subsystem and flat panel detector products in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; and willich, germany. these facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques, and several have been honored by the press, governments and trade organizations for their commitment to quality improvement. except for the lincolnshire, illinois facility, these manufacturing facilities are certified by international standards organization ( iso ) under iso 9001 (for sip) or iso 13485 (for medical devices). manufacturing processes at our various facilities include machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly and final testing. we have invested in various automated and semi-automated equipment for the fabrication and machining of the parts and assemblies that we incorporate into our products. we may, from time to time, invest further in such equipment. our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw material, purchased parts and assemblies through on-line inspection. we also receive subassemblies from third-party suppliers and integrate them into a finished system. we outsource the manufacturing of many major subassemblies and perform system design, assembly and testing in-house. we believe outsourcing enables us to reduce fixed costs and capital expenditures, while also providing us with the flexibility to increase production capacity. we purchase material and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high-dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, array sensors for use in our imaging panels, cesium iodide coatings for the arrays, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other x-ray tube components. we require certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray products, and high-grade steel and high-grade copper for the varian 17 table of contents particle therapy business. the rising costs and reduced supply of raw materials that we have seen over the last two years have abated with the recent worldwide economic downturn as global demand has decreased. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. backlog including a $75 million backlog from varian particle therapy, our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2009 was $2.1 billion, of which we expect to recognize approximately 50% to 55% as revenues in fiscal year 2010. our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2008 was $1.9 billion, of which $1,024 million was recognized as revenues in fiscal year 2009. our oncology systems backlog represented 87% and 90% of the total backlog at the end of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. except for varian particle therapy orders, we only recognize orders for products that are scheduled to be shipped within two years and only if any contingencies are deemed non-perfunctory. for our varian particle therapy business, we recognize orders when construction of the related proton therapy treatment center is reasonably expected to start within two years. also, we only recognize orders for varian particle therapy products with contingencies if we deem the contingencies perfunctory or if we publicly disclose the existence and nature of material contingencies. backlog also includes a small portion of service contracts when they become billable, as well as the amount of deferred revenue related to products that have been delivered but have outstanding contractual obligations or revenue related to acceptance. we perform a semi-annual review to verify that orders in our backlog remain valid. this review identifies aged orders and confirms these orders with our internal sales organization or our customers. aged orders which are not expected to be converted to revenues during this backlog review are deemed dormant and are no longer included in the reported backlog. orders may be revised or canceled, either according to their terms or as customers needs change; consequently, it is impossible to predict with certainty the amount of backlog that will result in revenues. in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we reversed $71 million, $70 million and $62 million, respectively, of orders due to adjustments, revisions or cancellations. our reported net orders included all backlog reversals. product and other liabilities our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products, or their misuse or failure, as well as liability related to the loss or misuse of private patient data. additionally, in part because proton therapy is still developing and is not yet widely deployed, customers for proton therapy systems are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since each proton center project may cost up to $100 million, the amount of potential liability may be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted and we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability. 18 table of contents government regulation u.s. regulation as a manufacturer, seller and servicer of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the food and drug administration ( fda ), nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ), and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure such devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. such regulations, which include the u.s. food, drug and cosmetic act (the fdc act ) and regulations promulgated by the fda, govern the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, possession, marketing, disposal, clinical investigations involving humans, sale and marketing of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation emitting devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. state regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. our oncology systems equipment and software, as well as proton therapy systems offered by our varian particle therapy business, constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors produced by x-ray products are also considered medical devices. future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation. these laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. under the fdc act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with requirements applicable to good manufacturing practices. our manufacturing operations for medical devices are required to comply with the fda quality system regulation ( qsr ), which addresses a company responsibility for quality systems, the requirements of good manufacturing practices and relate to product design, testing, and manufacturing quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. the qsr requires that each manufacturer establish a quality systems program by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with fda regulations and the manufacturer written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. qsr compliance is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new and existing products. among other things, these regulations require that manufacturers establish performance requirements before production. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers and may issue reports, known as form fda 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or warning letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures which, if not adequately responded to, could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, including criminal and civil fines and total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. inspections usually occur every two years. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre market notification clearance or pre market approval application ( pma ) before the manufacturer may take orders for and sell those products in the united states. for proton therapy systems, a 510(k) pre market notification clearance is required prior to the system being used for treating patients. the 510(k) clearance process is applicable when the new product being developed is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device. the process of obtaining 510(k) clearance generally takes at least one to three months from the date the application is filed and generally requires submitting supporting design and testing data, which can be extensive and can lengthen the process considerably beyond three months. after a product receives 510(k) clearance, any modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with the manufacturer decision, it may 19 table of contents retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a request for 510(k) pre-market notification clearance and can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the product until 510(k) clearance is obtained. if we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market approval through a pma application. under the pma process, the applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical protocol and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information in the pma application to prove the safety and effectiveness of the product. this process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pre-market approval is accepted for filing, but can take longer for the fda to review. to date, we have produced class 1 medical devices, which require no pre-market approvals or clearances, and class 2 medical devices, which require only 510(k) clearance. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are class 1 medical devices, while all of the products produced by our oncology systems segment and the proton therapy systems manufactured by our varian particle therapy business are class 2 medical devices. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. it is also important that our products comply with electrical safety and environmental standards, such as those of underwriters laboratories ( ul ), the canadian standards association ( csa ), and the international electrotechnical commission ( iec ). in addition, the manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive by-product material requires a specific radioactive material license. manufacture and distribution of these radioactive sources and devices also must be in accordance with an approved nrc certificate, or an agreement state registration certificate. service of these products must be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. we are also subject to a variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. for a further discussion of these laws and regulations, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental remediation liabilities. we, as a participant in the healthcare industry, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations on a broad array of additional subjects. further, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ) sets national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions and standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of patient health information. the healthcare industry is also subject to a number of fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws, and false claims laws. see medicare and medicaid reimbursement for a description of these laws and regulations. we must also comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. if we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with fda and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressure from our competitors; investigations or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; 20 table of contents losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or the refusal of future requests for clearance or approval; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; the inability to sell our products; and criminal prosecutions. laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly changing and new laws and regulations are continually being adopted, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, this may have on our business. there has been a trend in recent years, both in the united states and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. medicare and medicaid reimbursement the federal and state governments of the u.s. establish guidelines and pay reimbursements to hospitals and free-standing clinics for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures under medicare at the federal level and medicaid at the state level. private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government. the federal government and the congress review and adjust rates annually, and from time to time consider various medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services, including radiotherapy and radiosurgery, in hospitals and free-standing clinics. recently, president obama and members of congress have proposed significant reforms to the u.s. healthcare system. members of congress have proposed legislation that would, among other things, reduce reimbursement rates to medicare providers; introduce new patient care and payment models, including medicare payment bundling and gain-sharing; and establish reimbursement policies and rates for different treatment technologies and methods based on their clinical outcomes, comparative effectiveness and costs. it is unclear whether the proposed healthcare legislation will be enacted, and, if there is legislation enacted, what will be contained in the final legislation as it relates to reimbursement. as a result, there is uncertainty among hospitals and free-standing clinics on how healthcare reform will impact their practices. in recent years, we have also seen dramatic reductions in medicare reimbursements for diagnostic radiology. we believe reductions in these medicare reimbursement rates have reduced demand for medical x-ray imaging equipment, such as ct scanners, which have negatively impacted demand for our x-ray tube products. state government reimbursement for services is determined pursuant to each state medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law and regulations. the balanced budget act of 1997 revised the medicaid program to give each state more control over coverage and payment issues. in addition, cms has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the medicaid program at the state level. the impact on our business of this greater state control on medicaid payment for diagnostic services remains uncertain. the sale of medical devices including radiotherapy products, the referral of patients for diagnostic examinations and treatments utilizing such devices, and the submission of claims to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) seeking reimbursement for such services, are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. these laws include physician self- referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. subject to enumerated exceptions, the federal physician self-referral law, also known as stark ii, prohibits a physician from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity with which the physician (or a family member) has a financial relationship, if the referral is for a designated health service, which is defined explicitly to include radiology and radiation therapy services. anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, induce, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of business, including the purchase of medical devices from a particular manufacturer or the referral of patients to a particular supplier of 21 table of contents diagnostic services utilizing such devices. false claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent, for services not provided as claimed, or for medically unnecessary services. the office of the inspector general prosecutes violations of fraud and abuse laws and any violation may result in criminal and/or civil sanctions including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid. foreign regulation our operations, sales and service of our products outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. we are also subject to laws and regulations outside the united states applicable to manufacturers of radiation-producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each case that are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, regulations in the united states. in addition, our sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, environmental and product recycling requirements, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. we rely in some countries on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. the european union ( eu ) implemented a medical device directive that requires us to affix the conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;ene ( ce ) mark to our products in order to sell them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to receive permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we must obtain quality system certification, e.g., iso 13485, and must otherwise have a quality management system that complies with the eu medical device directives. the iso promulgates standards for certification of quality assurance operations. we are certified as complying with the iso 9001 for our security inspection products and iso 13485 for our medical devices. several asian countries, including japan and china, have adopted regulatory schemes that are comparable, and in some cases more stringent, than the eu scheme. to import medical devices into japan, the requirements of japan new medical device regulation must be met and a shonin , the approval to sell medical products in japan, must be obtained. similarly in china, a registration certification issued by the state food and drug administration and a china compulsory certification ( ccc ) mark for certain products are required to sell medical devices in that country. obtaining such certifications on our products can be time-consuming and can cause us to delay marketing or sales of certain products in such countries. similarly, prior to selling a device in canada, manufacturers of class ii, iii and iv devices must obtain a medical device license. we sell class ii and class iii devices in canada. additionally, many countries have laws and regulations relating to radiation and radiation safety that also apply to our products. in most countries, radiological regulatory agencies require some form of licensing or registration by the facility prior to acquisition and operation of an x-ray generating device or a radiation source. the handling, transportation and the recycling of radioactive metals and source materials are also highly regulated. a number of countries, including the members of the eu, have implemented or are implementing regulations that would require manufacturers to dispose, or bear certain disposal costs, of products at the end of a product useful life and restrict the use of some hazardous substances in certain products sold in those countries. for a further discussion of these regulations, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting estimates and environmental remediation liabilities. also, many countries where we sell our products have legislation protecting the confidentiality of personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released for inclusion in our databases, or released to third parties. 22 table of contents patent and other proprietary rights we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes, because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace. we generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights in the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. as of october 2, 2009, we owned 228 patents issued in the united states and 71 patents issued throughout the rest of the world and had 358 patent applications on file with various patent agencies worldwide. we intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we also have agreements with third parties that provide for licensing of patented or proprietary technology, including royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. for example, during fiscal year 2009, we licensed certain patents related to our flat panel detectors and certain technology related to our rapidarc treatment planning product. environmental matters for a discussion of environmental matters, see government regulation foreign regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental remediation liabilities, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference. financial information about geographic areas we do business globally with manufacturing in the united states, europe and china and with sales and service operations and customers throughout the world. roughly half of our revenues are generated from our international regions. in addition to the potentially adverse impact of foreign regulations, see government regulation foreign regulation, we also may be affected by other factors related to our international sales such as: lower average selling prices and profit margins; longer time periods from shipment to revenue recognition (which increases revenue recognition deferrals and time in backlog); and longer time periods from shipment to cash collection (which increases days sales outstanding ( dso ). so to the extent that the geographic distribution of our sales continues to shift more towards international regions, our overall revenues and margins may suffer. we sell our products internationally predominantly in local currencies, but our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. accordingly, there may be adverse consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect both the affordability and competitiveness of our products and our profit margins. we do engage in currency hedging strategies to offset the effect of currency exchange fluctuations, but the protection offered by these hedges depends upon the timing of transactions, forecast volatility, effectiveness of such hedges and the extent of currency fluctuation. we are also exposed to other economic, political and other risks inherent in doing business globally. for an additional discussion of these risks, see risk factors in item 1a. for a discussion of financial information about geographic areas, see note 15, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. discontinued operations in september 2008, we approved a plan to sell research instruments, which develops, manufactures and services highly customized scientific instrument components and systems for fundamental and applied 23 table of contents physics research primarily for national research laboratories worldwide. the sale of research instruments was completed in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. we have classified research instruments as a discontinued operation in our consolidated statements of earnings and consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. see note 16, discontinued operations in notes to consolidated financial statements for detailed discussion. the operations of research instruments were conducted from bergisch gladbach, germany. research instruments was previously included with the varian particle therapy business, which is reported under the other category in note 15, segment information to our consolidated financial statements. we decided to sell research instruments in order to focus exclusively on the development of our varian particle therapy business. employees we had approximately 5,100 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 3,300 in the united states and 1,800 elsewhere at october 2, 2009. none of our employees based in the united states are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. employees based in some foreign countries may, from time to time, be subject to collective bargaining agreements. we currently consider our relations with our employees to be good. information available to investors as soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the sec we make the following available free of charge the investors page of our website http://www.varian.com : our annual reports on form 10-k; quarterly reports on form 10-q; current reports on form 8-k (including any amendments to those reports); and our proxy statements. our code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit committee, compensation and management development committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available on the investors page of our website. additionally, we will provide copies of our reports, proxy statements, code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and committee charters, without charge, to any stockholder upon written request to the corporate secretary at our principal executive offices. please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed filed with the sec and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), or the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). executive officers of the registrant the biographical summaries of our executive officers as of are as follows: name age position timothy e. guertin 60 president and chief executive officer dow r. wilson 50 corporate executive vice president and president, oncology systems elisha w. finney 48 corporate senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer robert h. kluge 63 corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products tai-yun chen 57 corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller john w. kuo 46 corporate vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary timothy e. guertin has been chief executive officer since february 2006 and president since august 2005. previously, mr. guertin served as chief operating officer from october 2004 to february 2006, and corporate executive vice president from october 2002 to august 2005. mr. guertin also served as president of our oncology systems business unit from 1992 to january 2005. mr. guertin was corporate vice president from 1992 to 2002. mr. guertin has held various other positions in the medical systems business during his 33 years with the company. mr. guertin holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the university of california at berkeley. 24 table of contents dow r. wilson was appointed corporate executive vice president and president, oncology systems in august 2005. mr. wilson served as corporate vice president and president, oncology systems from january 2005 to august 2005. prior to joining the company in january 2005, mr. wilson was chief executive officer of the healthcare-information technologies business in general electric (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. previously, mr. wilson served as general manager, surgical, x-ray and interventional businesses and general manager, functional imaging of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2002 to 2003, and was general manager, computed tomography of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2000 to 2002. during the previous 15 years, mr. wilson held various management positions within general electric. mr. wilson holds a b.a. degree in english from brigham young university and an m.b.a. degree from dartmouth amos tuck school of business. mr. wilson also has served on the board of directors of saba software, inc. (an e-learning software provider) since august 2006. elisha w. finney was appointed corporate senior vice president, finance, in addition to being chief financial officer, in january 2005. ms. finney was corporate vice president and chief financial officer from april 1999 to january 2005. ms. finney has held various other positions during her 21 years with the company including treasurer. ms. finney holds a b.b.a. degree in risk management and insurance from the university of georgia and an m.b.a. degree from golden gate university in san francisco. ms. finney was appointed a director of thoratec corporation (a medical device manufacturer) in june 2007. robert h. kluge was appointed corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products of the company in february 2008. prior to that, mr. kluge served as corporate vice president and president, x-ray products from december 1999 to february 2008 and as vice president and general manager of our x-ray products business from 1993 to december 1999. before joining the company in 1993, mr. kluge held various positions with picker international (an x-ray systems manufacturer). mr. kluge holds a b.a. degree in economics and an m.b.a. degree in finance from the university of wisconsin. tai-yun chen was appointed corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller in august 2006. from february 2006 to august 2006, ms. chen served as the company operations controller. prior to that, from january 2002 to february 2006, ms. chen was the company assistant corporate controller, and from 2000 to january 2002 ms. chen was the company director of corporate accounting. ms. chen has served in various accounting management positions throughout the company during her 26 years with the company. ms. chen holds a bachelor degree in economics from the national chung chi university in taiwan and a master degree in managerial economics from the university of california at santa barbara. john w. kuo was appointed corporate vice president, general counsel in july 2005 and corporate secretary in february 2005. mr. kuo joined the company as senior corporate counsel in march 2003 and became associate general counsel in march 2004. prior to joining the company, mr. kuo was general counsel and secretary at broadvision, inc. (an e-commerce software provider) in 2002 and held senior legal positions at 3com corporation (a networking equipment provider) from 1997 to 2002. mr. kuo has previously been with the law firms of gray cary ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper) and fulbright &amp; jaworski. mr. kuo holds a b.a. degree from cornell university and a j.d. degree from boalt hall school of law at the university of california at berkeley. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents if we are unable to anticipate or keep pace with changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation and customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer rapid change and technological innovation characterize the oncology systems market. our products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. for example, most of our recent oncology systems product introductions have related to imrt, igrt, and vmat, and enhancements of existing products through greater integration and simplification. we believe that imrt and igrt have become accepted standards for treatment in the radiation oncology market. demand for our imrt products has been a historical driver for our net orders and revenues in oncology systems and, now, demand for our products for igrt has been one of the main contributors to more recent net orders and revenue growth. however, if future studies call into question the effectiveness of our imrt or igrt products or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our revenues could suffer. our success also depends on the continued acceptance and success of imrt and igrt in general and of our imrt and igrt products in particular. as more institutions buy or upgrade to achieve these capabilities, the market for imrt and igrt products may become saturated and we could face competition from newer technologies. for example, we have seen and continue to expect that the rate of growth for imrt equipment will be lower than what we have experienced previously, particularly in the north american market where a majority of our customer sites have the products and accessories necessary to perform imrt. we believe that the acceptance of vmat in general, and our rapidarc products in particular, is key to our future success. we believe that our rapidarc products for vmat are a significant advance in imrt treatments and can help drive longer term demand for our linear accelerators and imrt-related products. orders for our rapidarc technology have already contributed significantly to our recent net orders growth, even though vmat and our rapidarc products are not yet widely-accepted as a treatment standard. early adopters of vmat and our rapidarc products continue to publish studies on vmat treatments using our rapidarc products. if, however, future studies contradict current knowledge about vmat or our rapidarc products, question the effectiveness of vmat treatments or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our customers may not be willing to adopt vmat or purchase our rapidarc products. in addition, if third party information systems do not support our vmat technology, customers that have third party information systems may not purchase our rapidarc products, which could negatively impact our net orders and revenues. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. our equipment and software is highly sophisticated and requires a high level of training and education to use them competently and safely, a requirement made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) greater interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) enhancing the ease of use of our software products and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput. we have emphasized maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation therapy treatment. we anticipate that these efforts will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, vmat and igrt and will stimulate demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. we face competition though from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. 26 table of contents the acquisition of varian particle therapy should enable us to develop and offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. while our investment in proton therapy product development will continue, this technology may not be accepted as quickly as others due to the relatively large scale, high costs and complex project financing associated with implementing a proton therapy system. risks associated with this business could increase, given the heavy reliance of customers on credit and large-scale project financing, which is more difficult to obtain with the current general worldwide economic downturn and contraction in credit markets. our future success will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. our efforts to increase awareness and adoption of our proton therapy systems may not be successful, which could negatively impact this business. our x-ray products business sells products primarily to a small number of imaging system oem customers who use our products in their medical diagnostic and industrial imaging systems. some of these companies also manufacture x-ray tubes or flat panel detectors for their own systems, which means that we compete with their in-house x-ray tube and flat panel detector manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated systems businesses. to succeed, we must provide x-ray tube and flat panel detector products that meet customer demands for lower cost, better product quality and superior technology and performance. if we are unable to continue to innovate our x-ray products technology and anticipate our customers demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our customers may chose to purchase from their internal manufacturing operations or from other independent tube or panel manufacturers, which would negatively impact this business. we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers, our competitors may develop improved products or processes, or the marketplace may conclude that the tasks our products were designed to do is no longer an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the markets for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. if we are unable to develop new products or enhance existing products, we may be unable to attract or retain customers our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing products. our oncology systems products are technologically complex and must keep pace with, among other things, those of our competitors. our x-ray products business must also continually develop improved and lower cost products. accordingly, many of our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing. we are making significant investments in long-term growth initiatives, such as development of our sip and particle therapy businesses, and expect that we will need more investment to develop and commercialize the products and technology for these businesses. these activities require significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part, which we may be unable to recover. our timeline for the development of new products or enhancements may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. commercialization of new products may prove challenging, and we may be required to invest more time and money than expected to successfully introduce them. once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete. compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of new products or enhancements. a few of our research and development projects have been, and in the future may be, funded by government contracts, and changes in government priorities and our ability to attract similar funding may affect our overall research efforts. 27 table of contents our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products, treatment systems and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; prove feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively; manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors. additionally, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance and are experiencing increasing pressure in the current economic climate, which may lengthen sales and ordering timeframes. in addition, even if customers accept new products or product enhancements, the revenues from these products may not be sufficient to offset the significant costs associated with making them available to customers. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the qsr of the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. new products generally take longer to install than well-established products. because a portion of a product revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. while we will work to decrease the installation times for new products, such as we have done with installation times for obi, these plans may not be successful or have a meaningful impact on reducing associated revenue recognition deferrals. furthermore, even if these plans are successful, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. roughly half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 50%, 52% and 51% of revenues from continuing operations during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support globally, and we have sales and service offices 28 table of contents located in europe, asia, south america and australia. we also have manufacturing and research operations in the united kingdom, germany, switzerland, france, finland, canada and china. we also invested in the expansion of our china x-ray business through our acquisition of pan-pacific enterprises, inc. in fiscal year 2008. we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources to meet the needs of our customers. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets, although we cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully in the international markets, generate new business, or meet the service and support needs of our customers there. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country legal systems; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade; the fact that international regions typically have a lower gross margin on our products and a longer period from shipment to revenue recognition that generally results in greater revenue recognition deferrals and higher backlog; our ability to obtain export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in a foreign jurisdiction; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. historically, our international sales have had lower average selling prices and gross margins. although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international regions have represented a larger share of our business. as a result, our overall rate of orders growth (measured in u.s. dollars) could slow down and overall revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected. in addition, we generally retain cash received through international operations in our local subsidiaries. as of october 2, 2009, 83% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, they could be subject to additional taxation, and we would not receive the full benefit of the repatriation. if this happens, our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. earnings from our international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the respective countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. a decrease in the percentage of our total earnings from international regions, or a change in the mix of international regions among particular tax jurisdictions, could increase our effective tax rate. also, our current effective tax rate does not assume u.s. taxes on certain undistributed profits of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or u.s. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed to be or are actually remitted to the united states, or if tax laws change, in which case our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, recent proposals would make significant changes to u.s. taxation of 29 table of contents u.s.-based multinational corporations. although we cannot predict whether or in what form congress would enact any such proposals, legislation of this type could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate and financial results. our results may be harmed by the worldwide economic downturn since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, the credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. these economic conditions worsened in fiscal year 2009. these conditions have shrunk capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and more time consuming, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. this, in turn, has caused and may cause our customers to freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, and may result in consolidation of our customers. these conditions may also disrupt supply if vendors consolidate or go out of business. in such a climate, it has become and may continue to be more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. we cannot predict the timing or duration of the economic downturn or when an economic recovery will occur, in general or specifically in the healthcare industry. a deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. healthcare reform legislation may affect demand for our products and could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. there have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. certain proposals, if passed, may impose limitations on the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, or additional taxes on medical devices. these proposals could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and services, and therefore on our financial position and results of operations. recently, president obama and members of congress have proposed significant reforms to the u.s. healthcare system. both the u.s. senate and house of representatives have conducted hearings about u.s. healthcare reform. in the obama administration fiscal year 2010 federal budget proposal, the administration emphasized maintaining patient choice, reducing inefficiencies and costs, increasing prevention programs, increasing coverage portability and universality, improving quality of care and maintaining fiscal sustainability. the obama administration fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to limit medicare payments, reduce drug spending and increase taxes. in addition, members of congress have proposed a significant tax on certain medical devices, a single-payer healthcare system, a government health insurance option to compete with private plans, and other expanded public healthcare measures. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. we believe that the current uncertainty created by the prospects of healthcare reform in the united states has impacted our oncology systems business, and we expect that this uncertainty will persist until there is greater clarity on healthcare reform. we are unable to predict what healthcare reform legislation or regulations, if any, will be enacted in the united states or elsewhere; whether other healthcare legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding these matters will have on our customer purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes, and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. 30 table of contents changes to radiation oncology reimbursements may affect demand for our products sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by cms to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding the proposed reduction in medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery at free-standing clinics in the united states and for physician reimbursement for radiation oncology. while the final enacted reimbursement rate reductions for 2010, which were announced by cms on october 30, 2009, were much more modest for radiotherapy than originally proposed, we believe that the confusion and uncertainty created by the proposal was one of the major factors impacting our net orders in late fiscal year 2009, particularly from free-standing radiotherapy clinics (which we believe represents approximately 10% to 15% of oncology systems business). any significant cuts in these reimbursement rates, or other rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. in general, third-party payors are increasingly cost-conscious, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors. likewise, foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand or our expenses and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we provide in foreign markets. we manage this risk through established policies and procedures that include the use of derivative financial instruments. we have historically entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, generally ranging from one to twelve months in maturity, to mitigate the effects of operational and balance sheet exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. although hedging strategies help to offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide will be affected by the timing of transactions, and the effectiveness of those strategies, the number of transactions that are hedged, forecast volatility and the extent to which exchange rates have changed. in particular, foreign currency exchange rates have been extremely volatile over short periods of time since the beginning of 2008. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues and other operating results may be harmed. in addition, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. 31 table of contents in addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. even though our international sales are mostly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar, and some of our competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies. the volatility of the u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of the current economic downturn or in reaction thereto, or in the united states as a result of a change in the u.s. laws or regulations that will likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulationscould prevent us from distributing our products or result in significant penalties our products and those of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation, both in the united states and in foreign countries. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. marketing a medical device in the united states . in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, nrc and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. similar international regulations apply overseas. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval before we can market or sell those products in the united states. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may also require a new 510(k) clearance. obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for those products. if we were unable to obtain required fda clearance or approval for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business would suffer. in the past, in the united states, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. the 510(k) clearance process is generally less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the pma process. however, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the pma approval process rather than the 510(k) clearance process. if we were required to use the pma approval process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. marketing a medical device internationally. in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the eea, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, expensive, and uncertain, 32 table of contents which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. if we do not obtain the clearance or approvals on one or more of our products, or are unduly delayed in doing so, or if a clearance or approval includes significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, the market for the affected products would be negatively impacted. within the eea, we must receive a ce mark, a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the relevant regulatory requirements and, when used as intended, works properly and is acceptably safe. this conformity to the applicable directives is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body, before the ce mark can be granted. once clearance is obtained and the ce mark is affixed to the device, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws or directives. ce marking demonstrates that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries to allow free movement of trade within the eea countries. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and directives, we lose our ce mark, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eea. quality systems, audits and failure to comply. our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the fda qsr, and other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products that address a company responsibility for complying with the quality systems regulations, which include the requirements for current good manufacturing practices. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections has issued, and in the future may issue, reports, known as form fda 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or warning letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures. if a warning letter were issued, we would be required to take prompt corrective action to come into compliance. failure to respond timely to a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities and criminal and civil fines. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors, who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda and other international regulatory authorities, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations, and similar international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a corrections and removals report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda and other international regulatory agencies regarding the quality and safety of our devices. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive international, federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among countries or regions. our manufacture, distribution installation and service of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials 33 table of contents license. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. the fda and the ftc, also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions and may be required to revise our promotional claims or make other corrections or restitutions. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including hipaa and similar laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including, physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors or customers fail to comply with fda, ftc and other applicable u.s. and foreign country regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations by governmental authorities or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals, or the equivalent approvals in foreign countries; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; the inability to sell our products, or, where we have failed to comply with foreign regulations, to import our products to such countries; and criminal prosecutions. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. there has been a trend in recent years, both in the united states and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, 34 table of contents including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that may flow to us as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. compliance with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products may be costly, and failure to comply may result in penalties regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the united states vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the united states. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable, if not more stringent, than the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. we may be required to incur significant time and expense in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. violating anti-kickback and false claims laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several proposals and bills are being considered at both the state and federal levels expanding anti-kickback laws to require, among other things, extensive tracking, maintenance of data 35 table of contents bases regarding and disclosures of relationships and payments to physicians and healthcare providers. if these proposals or bills were to become law, the implementation of the necessary infrastructure to comply with them could be quite costly. we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states of the eu. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, antitrust and anti-competition laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, any violation of which could create a substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, we may become subject to laws, rules and regulations, such as fda regulations applicable to clinical trials. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could be quite costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body, other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products operate within our customers facilities and network systems, and under qa procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the fact that our products operate in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operate according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products, or their misuse or failure, as well as liability related to the loss or misuse of private patient data. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or installation, servicing and support of our products. with any accident or mistreatment, we could be subject to legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. adverse publicity could adversely impact our business by negatively affecting the reputation of radiation therapy in general, causing patients to question the efficacy of radiation therapy as a viable treatment for cancer and seek other methods of treatment. 36 table of contents in addition, if a product we designed or manufactured were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a recall could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, lost revenues and loss accruals under gaap that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. the product liability insurance policies that we maintain are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. the insurance coverage we have obtained may prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. a material claim successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited would require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. also, we believe that new competitors will enter our markets, as we have encountered new competitors as we enter new markets such as stereotactic radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. in addition, additional competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affect our net orders. in the radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab, siemens medical solutions, tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta, philips medical systems, best theratronics, ltd., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. we also encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. in our brachytherapy operations, our primary competitor is nucletron b.v. for the service and maintenance business for our oncology systems products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. in x-ray imaging components and subsystems, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems and ge healthcare, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria 37 table of contents applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive and we primarily compete against perkin-elmer, inc., trixell s.a.s., and canon, inc. in our flat panel detector product line. in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states, and our major competitor in this market is nuctech company limited. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fractured, and there is no single major competitor. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to complete the development of our commercial proton therapy system, lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. in the proton therapy market, we compete principally with ion beam applications s.a., hitachi medical corporation, and still river systems, inc. in each of our business segments, existing competitors actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. open architecture is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to achieve this as radiation therapy becomes more and more complex, interoperability and compatibility of the various products used in treating patients becomes more important. our linear accelerators, treatment simulators, treatment verification products, treatment planning and information management software products are designed to interoperate with one another, and to be compatible with other widely used third-party radiation oncology products. obtaining and maintaining this interoperability and compatibility is costly and time-consuming. when third parties modify the design or functionality of their products, we may need to modify our products to ensure compatibility. conversely, when we implement design improvements to our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software network provider does not yet have available a proper software interface. our ability to obtain compatibility with third-party products can depend on the third parties providing us with adequate information regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may time their product changes, and their sharing of relevant information with us, to place us at a competitive disadvantage. further, we could be required to obtain additional regulatory 38 table of contents clearances for any modification of our products due to interoperability issues with the products of third parties. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. protecting our intellectual property can be costly, and our competitive position would be harmed if we are not able to do so we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products the industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, and we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so if we are unsuccessful in defending an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our products, or may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. required licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all. 39 table of contents the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high-dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, array sensors for use in our imaging panels, cesium iodide coatings for the arrays, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other x-ray tube components. if we lose any of these suppliers or if their operations were substantially interrupted, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of such product by the fda or other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. we have limited insurance to protect against business interruption loss, although our coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. additionally, some of these suppliers, including our single-source suppliers, supply components for certain of our rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of these suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs by increasing prices. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. a shortage of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray products, and high-grade steel and high-grade copper for the varian particle therapy business. demand for these raw materials both within the united states and from foreign countries, such as china, has increased over the last few years, resulting in limited supplies and higher prices. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted and prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. as customers consolidate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity. as a result, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen, as orders increase in size and require more approvals. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our net orders for these products to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in net orders could affect the level 40 table of contents of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. we sell our x-ray tubes to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, and a reduction in business by one or more of these customers or consolidation of customers could reduce our sales there has been a consolidation of diagnostic imaging systems manufacturers over the past few years, including the consolidation of these customers into companies that already manufacture x-ray tubes. if this continues, we could experience less predictable and reduced sales of our x-ray tube products. in addition, the general worldwide economic downturn we have seen since 2008 has made and may continue to make it difficult for our oem customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and we saw our x-ray business impacted in fiscal year 2009 by inventory reduction efforts at some of these customers. the current market for new x-ray imaging equipment appears to be weak, and certain product lines, such as dental and veterinary, have been hit particularly hard in the recession. if the markets for our customers products significantly deteriorate due to the general economic downturn, our x-ray products business may be adversely affected. in recent years, we have also seen dramatic reductions in medicare reimbursements for diagnostic radiology. we believe reductions in these medicare reimbursement rates have reduced demand for medical x-ray imaging equipment, such as ct scanners, which have negatively impacted demand for our x-ray tube products. also, because we sell our x-ray products to a limited number of oem customers and many of them are also our competitors with in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations, we could experience the loss of, or reduction in purchasing volume by, one or more of these customers as they lower external sourcing costs in this economic downturn. such a loss or reduction could have a material adverse effect on our x-ray products business. orders for our security and inspection products could be unpredictable our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in the sip business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. however, use of linear accelerator and imaging technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. orders for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable and the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly, as it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery and acceptance schedules. in addition, our sip business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to political changes. we have begun to see customers freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. as a result, this business is subject to unpredictability in the timing of orders, sales and revenue that could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. 41 table of contents if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of a new treatment procedure such as imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiosurgery or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products. for example, the complexity and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of imrt and igrt and the required departures from their customary practices. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiosurgery and proton therapy generally and to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies. we cannot be sure that any products we develop will gain significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense on their education. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel, technical personnel and sales and marketing staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because this competition is intense, costs related to compensation could increase significantly if supply decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business, and our business would suffer. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer our products have a long production cycle and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders timely, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or may harm our business we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, in fiscal year 2008 we acquired pan-pacific, an independent distributor of medical x-ray tubes and other imaging components in china, and in fiscal year 2009 acquired certain assets of ikoe, a supplier of software used in the planning of radiotherapy and radiosurgery treatments. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, 42 table of contents completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we are experiencing with our proton therapy systems. these additional expenditures could be significant and could cause our results of operations to suffer. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. even with restructuring activities or divestitures, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies and benefits we expect. consequently, we may not achieve anticipated growth or other benefits from an acquisition, which could harm our existing business. if we decide to sell assets or a business, as we recently did with research instruments, it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. we account for our acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. under this method, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and in-process research and development costs based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our business and financial operations. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as proton therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with this, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks in the development and implementation of new businesses successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to successfully resolve residual issues related to the sale of our research instruments business in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we completed the sale the research instruments business, but retained responsibility for certain contracts. we may incur additional costs beyond those expected with 43 table of contents these remaining obligations which could adversely affect our financial condition. continued efforts related to managing these remaining obligations may require a substantial amount of management, administrative and operational resources, particularly if unanticipated difficulties with the fulfillment of these contracts are encountered. these demands may distract our employees and management from the day-to-day operation of our other businesses. we work with distributors for sales in some territories, and losing them could harm our revenues in that territory we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in europe and asia. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly net orders, revenues, and gross margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and gross margins. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and expect this to be even greater with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the equipment and the complexity of project financing. with the current general worldwide economic downturn and contraction in credit markets, as well as the uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform and changes to reimbursement rates, the purchasing cycle has extended and may extend even further as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. with larger projects, such as the purchase of a proton therapy system, the contraction in credit markets could cause customers to delay or cancel their projects, or request our participation in financing arrangements or payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay installation. for proton therapy products, this can delay the customer decision cycles even further. the timing of when individual orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized could have an effect our quarterly results. once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues and the timing include: delay in shipment due, for example, to longer construction projects or unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations or rescheduling by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or manufacturing difficulties; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; for proton therapy systems, failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or appropriate regulatory approvals or authorizations. our quarterly operating results may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors pricing or discount levels; 44 table of contents changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products; revenues becoming affected by seasonal influences; timing of revenue recognition; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by the international regions; timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us and by our competitors; fluctuation in our effective tax rate resulting from various factors, which may or may not be known to us in advance; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; changes in the general economic conditions or tightening of credit available to our customers in the regions in which we do business; unexpected levels of cancellations; the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our x-ray products; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry; misleading information in the financial community; and accounting changes, such as those relating to accounting reserves for product recalls, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, share-based compensation expense, accounting for income taxes, and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which are presently below the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by the rules of gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. unexpected levels of cancellation of orders or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce the quarterly net orders and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. our net orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. 45 table of contents the financial results of our varian particle therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable our proton therapy projects are highly customized and vary in size and complexity. planning for these projects will take more time and use more resources than those in the radiotherapy business conducted in our oncology systems segment. due to its relatively large scale, the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. if we are required to establish special purpose entities to finance and manage a proton therapy project, we may be required to consolidate these special purpose entities in our financial statements, or guarantee performance and assume liabilities that are in excess of the project value, which could negatively impact our financial results. further, the current worldwide economic downturn and contraction in credit markets may make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request participation in financing arrangements or payment concessions in their agreements with us. in addition, due to their size and complexity, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years. as a result, the timing of these projects, and therefore our operating results for this business, may vary significantly from period to period. in addition, many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require a long lead time, which may require an increase in our levels of inventory. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of our varian particle therapy business that may make it difficult to predict our operating results and to compare our financial results from period to period. moreover, entrance into the proton therapy business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. the greater size of proton projects means that the potential liability could similarly be greater. additionally, customers are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since the cost of each proton therapy center project may exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability may be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted and we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to our varian particle therapy business. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. this and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. loss of our first proton therapy system order, or future proton therapy system customers, would adversely affect revenues and earnings for our particle therapy business in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, skandion kliniken awarded us, in a competitive bidding situation, an approximately $62 million contract to deliver and install a proton therapy system in sweden and we have included this contract in net orders. however, one of the unsuccessful bidders has filed a formal appeal of the award. skandion kliniken is actively opposing this appeal and we believe it will be resolved in skandion kliniken favor. additionally, the order is contingent on skandion kliniken execution of a contract for the construction of the proton therapy facility. if the appeal is not resolved in skandion kliniken favor, or if they do not execute a construction contract, we would have to reverse the order and remove it from our backlog, which would have an adverse effect on our future revenues, earnings and other financial results. 46 table of contents we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of our particle therapy business for the foreseeable future. if a customer cancels an order for a proton therapy system, we would lose product and services revenues, which would adversely affect our financial results. we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a revolving credit facility that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary amendments to the credit agreement or waivers of an event of default. upon an event of default if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform with gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board, american institute of certified public accountants, the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. additionally, as we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. for example, as a result of our adoption of the provisions in accounting standards codification ( asc ) 740 related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, our effective tax rate and other related financial metrics have fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate more than they have in prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including that regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. additionally, we recognize revenues for some of our proton therapy products and services and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our sip business under the percentage-of-completion method or the completed-contract method, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply these methods to other businesses in the future. the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method and completed contract method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles 47 table of contents and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. as a consequence of these various elements, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and reasonably predictable, and others not recurring or easily predicted. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs, of products at the end of a product useful life, thus creating increased costs for our operations. the eu has also adopted a directive that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires material disclosure information to be provided upon request, could create increased costs for our operations. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. as a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may offer extended payment terms, which may potentially result in higher dso and greater payment defaults we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. as of october 2, 2009, customer contracts with extended payment terms of more than one year amounted to less than 1% of our accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. this may result in an increase in payment defaults, which would affect our net earnings. also, longer or extended payment terms have and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. disruption of critical information systems could harm our business and financial condition information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results. 48 table of contents our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past, as well as other disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster affecting our facilities (such as a major fire, flood or terrorist attack), or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers damaged manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. in addition, our facilities, particularly those located in the western states of the united states, may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. the effect of terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases may negatively affect sales and hinder our operations concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as the swine flu, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk there has been significant deterioration and instability in the financial markets beginning in fiscal year 2008. this period of extraordinary disruption and readjustment in the financial markets exposes us to additional credit risk. we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign exchange contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation under such contracts. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also have the credit facility described below. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and typically hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not in the subsidiaries functional currency. the foreign currency sales transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to twelve months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. 81 table of contents the notional amounts of forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased forward exchange contracts outstanding at october 2, 2009 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 14.8 $ 1.1594 british pound 8.9 0.6295 canadian dollar 6.2 1.0855 danish krone 3.0 5.1053 euro 136.1 0.3 0.6856 indian rupee 2.1 47.9500 japanese yen 15.8 89.6057 new zealand dollar 0.4 1.3943 norwegian kron 0.3 5.8117 swedish krona 3.6 3.9 7.0336 swiss franc 33.9 1.0343 totals $ 179.3 $ 50.0 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and short-term borrowings. our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents as of october 2, 2009. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at october 2, 2009 totaled $554 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.16%. the amended bofa credit facility (including the japanese line of credit) allows us to borrow up to a maximum amount of $150 million. we collateralized a portion of the amended bofa credit facility with a pledge of 65% of the voting shares that we hold in varian medical systems nederland b.v., a wholly-owned subsidiary. borrowings under the amended bofa credit facility (outside of the japanese line of credit) accrue interest based on the libor, the federal funds rate, or the bofa prime rate plus a margin. borrowings under the japanese line of credit accrue interest at the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under the amended bofa credit facility (including the japanese line of credit). as of october 2, 2009, the amount outstanding under the amended bofa credit facility was the $4.4 million in principal under the japanese line of credit, with interest being accrued on the basic loan rate plus a margin. if the amount outstanding under the japanese line of credit remained at this level for an entire year and the basic loan rate increased or decreased, respectively, by 1%, our interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $44,000. see a detailed discussion of our credit facility under liquidity and capital resources section in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we had $32.4 million of long-term debt (including the current maturities of long term debt) outstanding at october 2, 2009 that carried at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.9% with 82 table of contents principal payments due in various installments over a five-year period. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate of our investment portfolio, short-term borrowings or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and long term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 553.5 $ $ $ $ $ $ 553.5 average interest rate 0.16 % 0.16 % liabilities: long-term debt $ 9.0 $ 5.5 $ 11.6 $ $ 6.3 $ $ 32.4 average interest rate 6.85 % 6.80 % 7.03 % 6.70 % 6.88 % short-term borrowing under credit facilities $ 4.4 $ $ $ $ $ $ 4.4 average interest rate 1.55 % 1.55 % the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents (83% of which was held abroad at october 2, 2009 and could be subject to additional taxation if it were repatriated to the united states) and the estimated fair value of our short-term borrowings under the credit facility approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the fair value of our long-term debt was estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. under this method, the fair value of our debt was estimated to be $34.8 million at october 2, 2009. we determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. however, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. accordingly, the fair value estimate presented herein is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instruments could realize in a current market exchange. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 83 table of contentsrisk factors 25 item 1b unresolved staff comments 48 item 2. properties 48 item 3. legal proceedings 49 item 4. reserved 49 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 50 item 6. selected financial data 52 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 54 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 80 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 131 item 9a. controls and procedures 131 item 9b other information 131 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 132 item 11. executive compensation 133 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 133 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 134 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 134 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 135 signatures 140 2 table of contents forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k (this annual report ), including the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ( md&amp;a ) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, which provides a safe harbor for statements about future events, products and future financial performance that are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and information currently available to the management of varian medical systems, inc. ( we, our or the company ). the outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results and the outcome or timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in these forward-looking statements due to the factors listed under risk factors, and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). for this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook; market acceptance of or transition to new products or technology such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, volumetric modulated arc therapy, brachytherapy, software, treatment techniques, proton therapy and advanced x-ray products; growth drivers; future orders, revenues, backlog, earnings or other financial results; and any statements using the terms believe, expect, expectation, anticipate, can, should, would, could, estimate, appear, based on, may, intended, potential, and possible or similar statements are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and the outcome and timing of certain events to differ materially from those projected or management current expectations. by making forward-looking statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us to, update or revise those statements because of new information, future events or otherwise. part i item 1. business general we, varian medical systems, inc., are a delaware corporation and were originally incorporated in 1948 as varian associates, inc. in 1999, we transferred our instruments business to varian, inc. ( vi ), a wholly owned subsidiary, and transferred our semiconductor equipment business to varian semiconductor equipment associates, inc. ( vsea ), a wholly owned subsidiary. we retained the medical systems business, principally the sales and service of oncology products and the sales of x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems. on april 2, 1999, we spun off vi and vsea, which resulted in a non-cash dividend to our stockholders and which we refer to as the spin-offs in this annual report on form 10-k. immediately after the spin-offs, we changed our name to varian medical systems, inc. we have been involved in the medical systems business since 1959. an amended and restated distribution agreement dated as of january 14, 1999 and other associated agreements govern our ongoing relationships with vi and vsea. in may 2010, vi became a wholly owned subsidiary of agilent technologies inc. overview we are the world leader in the design, manufacture, sale and service of equipment and software products for treating cancer with radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy. we also design, manufacture, sell and service x-ray tubes for original equipment manufacturers ( oems ); replacement x-ray tubes; and flat panel digital image detectors for filmless x-ray imaging (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors) in medical, dental, veterinary, scientific and industrial applications. we design, manufacture, sell and service linear accelerators, digital image detectors, image processing software and image detection products for security and inspection purposes. we also develop, design, manufacture, sell and service proton therapy products and systems for cancer treatment. 3 table of contents our mission is to explore and develop radiation technology that protects and saves lives and prevents harm. we seek to be a partner for life and to help save an additional 100,000 lives per year with our technology, products and services. to meet this challenge, we offer tools for fighting cancer, taking x-ray images and protecting ports and borders. oncology systems designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer. our products include linear accelerators, brachytherapy afterloaders, treatment simulation and verification equipment and accessories; as well as information management, treatment planning and image processing software. our products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer advanced treatments such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy ( imrt ), image-guided radiation therapy ( igrt ), volumetric modulated arc therapy ( vmat ), and stereotactic radiotherapy, as well as to treat patients using brachytherapy techniques, which involve temporarily implanting radioactive sources. our products are also used by neurosurgeons to perform stereotactic radiosurgery. our customers worldwide include university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors offices and cancer care clinics. x-ray products designs, manufactures and sells: (i) x-ray tubes for use in a range of applications, including computed tomography ( ct ) scanning, radiographic or fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications; and (ii) flat panel digital image detectors for filmless x-ray imaging (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors ). our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are sold to large imaging system oem customers that incorporate them into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary, igrt and industrial imaging systems. for replacement purposes, our x-ray tubes and our flat panel detectors are sold to small oems, independent service companies and directly to end-users. we have two other businesses and our ginzton technology center ( gtc ) that we report together under the other category. our security and inspection products ( sip ) business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products (including intellx tm ) for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination in a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems. our varian particle therapy business develops, designs, manufactures, sells and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiation therapy using proton beams for the treatment of cancer. our current focus is commercializing the proton therapy system and bringing our expertise in traditional radiation therapy to proton therapy to improve its clinical utility and to reduce its cost of treatment per patient. the gtc develops technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including technology to improve radiation therapy and x-ray imaging, as well as other technology for a variety of applications, including security and cargo screening. in september 2008, we approved a plan to sell the scientific research instruments business ( research instruments ) that we acquired as part of our acquisition of accel instruments gmbh ( accel, which has since changed its name to varian medical systems particle therapy gmbh) in order to focus our efforts on the development of the proton therapy systems portion of the business. the sale of research instruments was completed in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. research instruments is classified as a discontinued operation. for additional information, see discontinued operations below. our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the factors described in risk factors in conjunction with the description of our business set forth below and the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. 4 table of contents radiation therapy and the cancer-care market radiation therapy, also referred to as radiotherapy, is the use of certain types of focused energy (radiation) to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors, with the goal of damaging as many cancer cells as possible, while limiting harm to nearby healthy tissue. radiotherapy is commonly used either alone or in combination with surgery or chemotherapy. one important advantage is that radiation has its greatest effect on replicating cells. when radiation interacts with a cell the therapeutic effect is primarily mediated by damaging cellular genetic material (chromosomes), which interrupts cell replication and results in eventual cellular death. since the need for replication is particularly critical to the survival of a cancer and since normal tissues are better able to repair such damage, radiation tends to disproportionately kill cancer cells. the process for delivering radiotherapy typically consists of examining the patient, planning the treatment, simulating and verifying the treatment plan, providing quality assurance for the equipment and software, delivering the treatment, verifying that the treatment was delivered correctly and recording the history and results of the treatment. the team responsible for delivering the radiotherapy treatment generally comprises a physician specializing in radiation oncology, a physicist for planning the treatment and a radiation therapist for operating the machines. the most common form of radiotherapy involves delivering x-ray beams from outside of the patient body, a process sometimes referred to as external beam radiotherapy. a device called a linear accelerator generates the x-ray beams and administers the treatment by rotating around a patient lying on a treatment couch and delivering the x-ray beam to the tumor from different angles in order to concentrate radiation at the tumor while at the same time minimizing the dose delivered to the surrounding healthy tissue. conventional radiotherapy typically involves multiple, or fractionated, treatments of a tumor in up to 50 radiation sessions. the linear accelerator may also deliver electron beams for the treatment of diseases closer to the body surface. imrt is an advanced form of external beam radiotherapy in which the shape, intensity and angle of the radiation beams from a linear accelerator are varied, or modulated, across the target area. this form of radiotherapy conforms the radiation beams more closely to the shape of the tumor and allows physicians to deliver higher doses of radiation than conventional radiation, while more effectively limiting the amount of radiation delivered to nearby healthy tissue. in this way, clinicians can design and administer an individualized treatment plan for each patient, targeting the tumor as closely as a few millimeters. imrt can be used to treat head and neck, breast, prostate, pancreatic, lung, liver, gynecological and central nervous system cancers. imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment for cancer; and additional treatment centers, from university hospitals to local community clinics, adopt imrt for their treatments every year. we are a leading global provider of products that enable imrt for the treatment of cancer. igrt is another advanced form of external beam radiotherapy complementing imrt to enhance treatments. while imrt helps physicians shape the beam to the tumor, igrt goes further in allowing physicians to accommodate for a tumor moving or shrinking. this allows the delivery of even higher doses of radiation to tumors with the goal of sparing even more of the surrounding healthy tissue. igrt technologies compensate for daily changes and movements in tumors and enable dynamic, real-time visualization and precise treatment of small, moving and changing tumors with greater intensity and accuracy. with the greater precision offered by igrt, clinics and hospitals are potentially able to improve outcomes by concentrating even still higher doses of radiation at the tumors. we believe igrt has become an accepted standard for treatment in the radiation oncology market. stereotactic radiosurgery (also referred to as stereotactic body radiotherapy) is an advanced radiation treatment procedure that employs linear accelerators and imrt/igrt technology to deliver a small number of very precisely placed, high dose beams of radiation to eradicate cancerous, non-cancerous and abnormal lesions in the body. radiation therapists and surgeons are recognizing stereotactic radiosurgery as a useful tool in curative radiation therapy. 5 table of contents vmat is a significant further advancement in imrt that allows physicians to control three parameters simultaneously: (i) the rate at which the linear accelerator gantry rotates around the patient, (ii) the beam-shaping aperture and (iii) the rate at which the radiation dose is delivered to the patient. this creates a finely-shaped imrt dose distribution that more closely matches the size and shape of the tumor. vmat enables improved treatment precision by sparing more healthy tissue, makes treatments faster and offers the possibility of greater comfort for patients. our rapidarc tm radiotherapy products plan and deliver vmat treatments. physicians, hospitals and clinics place additional value on radiotherapy equipment and treatments, such as vmat, that enable shorter treatment times and greater patient throughput. from the patient standpoint, shorter treatment times can mean greater comfort since treatments often involve the patient being immobilized on the treatment couch. shorter treatment sessions decrease waiting times and, since treatments are delivered in fractions over the course of many days, can mean fewer disruptions to a patient daily routine. from the physicians and hospitals standpoint, shorter treatment times can lessen the chance of tumors moving during treatment and can increase patient throughput. shorter treatment times and increased patient throughput can increase the number of treatments per day (which is a particular concern in countries with lower numbers of treatment machines per capita), and, as a result, can decrease the cost per treatment which in turn can mean greater access to advanced care to more patients. an alternative to external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy involves the insertion of radioactive seeds, wires or ribbons directly into a tumor or into a body cavity close to the cancerous area. these techniques, unlike external beam radiation therapy, tend to result in much less irradiation of the surrounding healthy tissue so that physicians can prescribe a higher total dose of radiation typically over a shorter period of time. brachytherapy is often used for cancers of the head and neck, breast, uterus, cervix, soft tissue and prostate. proton therapy is another form of external beam radiotherapy that uses proton particles in the form of a beam generated with a cyclotron rather than x-ray beams from a linear accelerator. a proton beam signature energy distribution curve, also known as the bragg peak, allows for greater accuracy in targeting tumor cells with an even lower dose to nearby healthy tissue than may be delivered with x-ray beams from a linear accelerator. this makes proton therapy a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly tumors near critical structures such as the optic nerve and cancers in children. although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to the high capital cost and the market is still developing. we have entered the proton therapy market because we believe we can apply our experience in traditional radiotherapy to proton therapy, reducing cost of treatment per patient for existing clinical applications and expanding the use of proton therapy into a broader array of cancer types. we believe that proton therapy will over time become a more widely accepted method of treatment. the radiation oncology market is growing globally due to a number of factors. the number of new cancer cases diagnosed annually is projected to increase by more than 65 percent from 12.7 million new cases in 2008 to more than 21.3 million in 2030, according to the international agency for research on cancer (the iarc ) in the world health organization. the iarc world cancer report predicts that the increase in new cases will mainly be due to steadily aging populations in both developed and developing countries. technological advancements have helped to improve the precision and applicability of radiotherapy and radiosurgery, potentially expanding the use of radiotherapy and radiosurgery equipment to treat a broader range of cases. technological advances in hardware and software are also creating a market for replacing an aging installed base of machines that are unable to match new, higher standards of care. the rise in cancer cases, together with the increase in sophistication of new treatment processes, have created demand for more automated products that can be integrated into clinically practical systems to make treatments more rapid and cost effective. technology advances leading to improvements in patient 6 table of contents care, the availability of more advanced, automated and efficient clinical tools in radiation therapy, the advent of more precise forms of radiotherapy treatment (such as imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, brachytherapy and, ultimately, proton therapy), and developing technology and equipment that enable treatments (such as vmat) which reduce treatment times and increase patient throughput should drive the demand for our radiation therapy products and services. international markets in particular are under-equipped to address the growing cancer incidence. patients in many foreign countries must frequently endure long waits for radiotherapy. several nations with growing economies, including china, india, and brazil, are beginning to invest in expanding their radiation oncology capability to address the needs of their growing and aging populations. as an example, china, india and brazil are estimated to have less than one linear accelerator per million people in their population. by comparison, the u.s. has an estimated 13 linear accelerators per million people in its population. this capacity shortfall, coupled with ever increasing incidences of cancer, represent additional drivers for our continued growth in international markets. as a u.s.-based company, the competitiveness of our product pricing is influenced by the fluctuation of the u.s. dollar against other currencies. a weaker u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would make our product pricing more competitive in the local currencies of our international customers. a weaker u.s dollar against foreign currencies would also benefit our international revenues and net orders when measured in u.s. dollars. in fiscal year 2009, all of our businesses were negatively impacted by the economic downturn. in oncology systems, the economic downturn shrunk customer capital equipment budgets, slowed decision making and made financing more expensive and time consuming. our x-ray products business saw weak net orders and revenues as a result of customer inventory reduction efforts. we saw governments postpone purchasing decisions and delay deployments of products for security and inspection systems. in addition, oncology systems was negatively impacted in fiscal year 2009 by the uncertainties created by the prospects of healthcare reform in the united states and by proposed reductions in medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery at free-standing clinics in the united states. we believe we successfully navigated within a tough environment in fiscal year 2010 and, by the end of the fiscal year, there was greater clarity on these issues, including, for fiscal year 2011, the reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery at free-standing clinics. products oncology systems our oncology systems business segment is the leading provider of advanced hardware and software products for treatment of cancer with conventional radiation therapy, imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and brachytherapy. oncology systems products address each major aspect of the radiotherapy process, including linear accelerators and accessory products for positioning the patient and delivering the x-ray beam; brachytherapy afterloaders; treatment planning software; treatment simulation and verification equipment and accessories and quality assurance software for simulating and verifying the treatment plans before treatment and verifying that a treatment was delivered correctly afterwards; and information management software for recording the history and results of treatments and other patient treatment information and data, including patient x-ray images. the focus of our oncology systems business is addressing the key concerns of the market for advanced cancer care systems; improving efficiency, precision, cost-effectiveness, comfort to the patient and ease of delivery of these treatments; and providing greater access to advanced treatments. a core element of our business strategy is to provide our customers with highly versatile, clinically proven products that are interoperable and can be configured and integrated into automated systems that combine greater precision, shorter treatment times and greater cost effectiveness and that improve the entire process of treating a patient. our products and accessories for imrt and igrt allow clinicians to track and treat tumors using very precisely shaped beams, targeting the tumor as closely as currently possible and allowing the delivery of higher doses to the tumor while limiting exposure of nearby healthy tissue. 7 table of contents additionally, the precision and versatility of our products and technology makes it possible to use radiotherapy to treat metastatic cancers. with our treatment planning, verification and information management software products, a patient treatment plans, treatment data and images are recorded and stored in a single database shared by each of our products, which enables better communication among products. our products also allow multiple medical specialties radiation oncology, neurosurgery, radiographic imaging and medical oncology to share equipment, resources and information in a more cost-effective manner. furthermore, the ability of our products and technology to interoperate with each other and to interconnect into automated systems allows physicians to schedule and treat more patients within a set time period, which adds to the cost-effectiveness of our equipment. linear accelerators are the core device for delivering conventional external beam radiotherapy with imrt, igrt and vmat treatments, and we produce versions of these devices to suit various requirements. our clinac &reg; medical linear accelerators are used to treat cancer by producing therapeutic electrons and x-ray beams that target tumors and other abnormalities. the clinac ix linear accelerators are designed for more streamlined and advanced treatment processes including imrt and igrt. we also produce the trilogy linear accelerator, designed to be a versatile, cost-effective, ultra-precise device with a faster dose delivery rate and smaller isocenter compared to the clinac ix. trilogy was developed with igrt and stereotactic radiotherapy in mind, but is also capable of delivering conventional, 3d conformal radiotherapy, imrt and vmat. trilogy has the precision necessary to deliver stereotactic radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments and is the accelerator that is at the core of the novalis tx tm product offering, a combination of products from varian and brainlab ag ( brainlab ), targeted to neurosurgeons. the unique tm low-energy linear accelerator, which was developed to address more price sensitive markets in international regions, is capable of integrating our accessory products (including rapidarc) to deliver imrt, igrt and vmat. in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we introduced the truebeam system for image-guided radiotherapy and radiosurgery. this product line is a fully-integrated system designed from the ground up to treat a moving target with higher speed and accuracy. including a small portion of truebeam orders representing upgrades from other linear accelerators already in our backlog, through october 1, 2010 we had received orders for more than 125 truebeam systems since its introduction, with the majority of the orders coming from north america. we also manufacture and market linear accelerator accessories that enhance efficiency and enable delivery of advanced treatments such as imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and vmat. our millennium series of multi-leaf collimators and high definition 120 ( hd 120 ) multi-leaf collimators are used with a linear accelerator to define the size, shape and intensity of the generated beams. portalvision , our electronic portal-imager, is used to verify a patient position while on the treatment couch, which is critical for accurate treatments and simplifies quality assurance of individual treatment plans. we also offer an innovative real-time patient position monitoring product, the rpm respiratory gating system, which allows the linear accelerator to be synchronized with patient breathing to help compensate for tumor motion during the course of treatment. our igrt accessories include the on-board imager &reg; ( obi ) hardware accessory affixed to the linear accelerator that allows dynamic, real-time imaging of tumors while the patient is on the treatment couch and a cone-beam computerized tomography ( cbct ) imaging software accessory that works with the obi to allow patient positioning based on soft-tissue anatomy. using sophisticated image analysis tools, the cbct scan can be compared with a reference ct scan taken previously to determine how the treatment couch should be adjusted to fine-tune and verify the patient treatment setup and positioning prior to delivery of the radiation. therefore, to deliver the most advanced forms of igrt, our accelerators would typically have an obi, cbct, portalvision and other igrt-related hardware and software as accessories. our rapidarc radiotherapy products enable the planning and delivery of image-guided imrt in a single continuous rotation of up to 360 degrees rather than as a series of fixed fields. our rapidarc 8 table of contents products enable faster delivery of radiation treatment with the possibility of greater comfort to the patient, reduced opportunity for tumor movement during treatment and greater patient throughput, resulting in lower cost per patient for the hospital or clinic. rapidarc radiotherapy products are a proprietary implementation of vmat that coordinates beam shaping, dose rate and gantry speed to deliver a highly conformal dose distribution to the target tumor. we believe rapidarc represents a significant advancement in imrt cancer treatment and can help drive longer term demand for our linear accelerators and imrt-related accessories. our treatment planning and information management software products enhance and enable the delivery of advanced radiotherapy treatments, from the initial treatment planning and plan quality assurance verification to the post-treatment recording of data and storing of patient information. prior to any treatment, particularly imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiosurgery or one using rapidarc, physicians must plan the course of radiation delivery for the patient. we offer a range of treatment planning products that assist physicians in compiling this plan. our eclipse treatment planning system provides physicians with 3d image viewing, treatment simulation, radiation dosage calculation and verification and other tools for generating treatment delivery plans for the patient. the eclipse software utilizes a sophisticated technique known as inverse planning to enable physicians to rapidly develop optimal treatment plans based on a desired radiation dose outcome to the tumor and surrounding tissue. our argus software manages the planning, recording and analysis of quality assurance data for linear accelerators. finally, our aria oncology information management system ( aria ) is a comprehensive real-time information management system and database that records and verifies radiotherapy treatments carried out on the linear accelerator, records and stores patient data relating to chemotherapy treatment which may be prescribed by a physician in addition to radiotherapy, performs patient charting and manages patient information and patient image data. this gives clinics and hospitals the ability to manage treatment and patient information across radiation oncology and medical oncology procedures. also, because aria is an electronic medical record, it can enable users to operate filmless and paperless oncology departments and cancer clinics. our treatment simulators enable physicians to simulate radiation therapy treatments prior to delivery. we manufacture and sell acuity , a simulator that uses advanced amorphous silicon imaging technology and which has been designed to enhance imrt treatments by integrating simulation more closely with treatment planning and by helping physicians better address tumor motion caused by breathing. in addition to offering our own suite of equipment and software products for planning and delivering radiotherapy treatments, we have partnered with selected leaders in certain segments of the radiation therapy and radiosurgery market. with general electric medical systems ( ge ) in north america, we have established the see and treat cancer care program for radiation therapy that allows us to offer a suite of diagnostic and cancer treatment tools combining our comprehensive set of radiation therapy products with ge advanced diagnostic imaging systems. we have also established a strategic relationship with brainlab for the sale and marketing of a radiosurgical suite of products targeted to neurosurgeons that integrates either our trilogy tx linear accelerator or our truebeam stx and our hd 120 multi-leaf collimator with specialty positioning and software products offered by brainlab, called the novalis radiosurgery program. we have a 2.5% equity ownership in brainlab. our brachytherapy operations design, manufacture, sell and service advanced brachytherapy products, including varisource hdr afterloaders and gammamed hdr/pdr afterloaders, brachyvision brachytherapy treatment planning system, applicators and accessories. brachytherapy also develops and markets the variseed ldr prostate treatment planning system and the vitesse software for hdr prostate treatment planning. revenues from our oncology systems business segment represented 79%, 81% and 81% of total revenues for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. our oncology systems business segment revenues also include service revenues. see customer services and support. for a discussion of 9 table of contents oncology systems business segment financial information, see note 14, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. x-ray products our x-ray products business segment is a world leader in designing and manufacturing x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors, which are key components of x-ray imaging systems. we sell our products to oems for new system configurations and replacement x-ray tubes for installed systems. we conduct an active research and development program to focus on new technology and applications in both the medical and industrial x-ray imaging markets. we manufacture x-ray tubes for four primary medical diagnostic radiology applications: ct scanners, radiographic or fluoroscopic imaging, special procedures and mammography. we also offer a large line of industrial x-ray tubes, which consist of analytical x-ray tubes used for x-ray fluorescence and diffraction, as well as tubes used for non-destructive imaging and gauging and airport baggage inspection systems. our flat panel detectors, which are based on amorphous silicon imaging technologies, have found broad application as an alternative to image intensifier tubes and x-ray film. these flat panel detectors are being incorporated into next generation filmless medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial inspection imaging systems and also serve as a key component of our obi, which helps enable igrt. we believe that imaging equipment based on amorphous silicon technologies is more stable and reliable, needs fewer adjustments and suffers less degradation over time than image intensifier tubes and is more cost effective than x-ray film. our product offering of flat panel detectors also includes a family of radiographic panels, which may be used on digital radiography systems or may be used to convert film-based systems to digital systems. our radiographic flat panels were a key contributor to net order and revenue growth for x-ray products in fiscal years 2010 and 2009. revenues from x-ray products represented 17%, 15% and 15% of total revenues in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008. for a discussion of the x-ray products business segment financial information, see note 14, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. other our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination in a variety of applications. the linatron m-i is a dual energy accelerator that can perform non-intrusive inspection of cargo containers and aid in automatically detecting and alerting operators when high-density nuclear materials associated with dirty bombs or weapons of mass destruction are present during cargo screening. the linatron k-15 is a high-energy accelerator for inspection of very large, dense objects, including, for example, the solid rocket boosters on nasa space shuttle. intellx is an imaging product for cargo screening. generally, we sell our sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies who use them in overseas ports and borders to screen for contraband, weapons, stowaways, narcotics and explosives, as well as for manifest verification. we also sell our sip products to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries for nondestructive product examination purposes, such as industrial inspection and manufacturing quality control. our varian particle therapy business develops, designs, manufactures, sells and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiotherapy using proton beams, for the treatment of cancer. proton therapy is a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly tumors near critical structures such as the optic nerve and cancers in children. although proton therapy 10 table of contents has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to high capital cost. gtc, our scientific research facility, continues to invest in developing technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital x-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, and improved x-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. in addition, gtc is developing technologies and products that are designed to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy. sip, varian particle therapy and gtc report their results from operations as part of the other category. combined revenues from these operations represented 4% of total revenues in each of fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008. for a discussion of segment financial information, see note 14, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. customer services and support we maintain service centers in milpitas, california; las vegas, nevada; marietta, georgia; buc, france; crawley, united kingdom; zug, switzerland; herlev (copenhagen), denmark; diegem (brussels), belgium; darmstadt, germany; houten, the netherlands; alcobendas (madrid), spain; cernusco (milan), italy; manama, bahrain; moscow, russia; mumbai, delhi, and chennai, india; tokyo, osaka, sendai, nagoya, and fukuoka, japan; beijing, shanghai and hong kong, china; kuala lumpur, malaysia; singapore; bangkok, thailand; belrose, australia; and sao paulo, brazil; as well as field service personnel throughout the world for oncology systems customer support services. key oncology systems logistics and education operations are located in las vegas, nevada, beijing, china, mumbai, india, and zug, switzerland. our network of service engineers and customer support specialists provide installation, warranty, repair, training and support services, and professional services. we generate service revenues by providing services to customers on a time-and-materials basis and through post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts. most of the field service engineers are our employees, but our products are serviced by employees of dealers and/or agents in a few foreign countries. customers can access our extensive service network by calling any of our service centers. we warrant most of our oncology systems products for parts and labor for 12 months, and we offer a variety of post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts to suit customers requirements. we believe customer service and support are an integral part of our oncology systems competitive strategy. growth in our service revenues has resulted from the increasing customer adoption of service contracts as the sophistication and installed base of our products increase. we also believe superior service plays an important role in marketing and selling medical products and systems, particularly as the products become more complex. nevertheless, some of our customers use their own internal service organizations and/or independent service organizations to service equipment after the warranty period expires and therefore do not enter into agreements with us for extended service. we generally warrant our x-ray tubes and flat panel detector products in our x-ray products business segment for 12 to 24 months, although for some x-ray tubes the warranty period is based on the number of times the product is used. we provide technical advice and consultation for x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems products to major oem customers from our offices in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; tokyo, japan; beijing, china and willich, germany. our applications specialists and engineers make recommendations to meet the customer technical requirements within the customer budgetary constraints. we often develop specifications for a unique product, which will be designed and manufactured to meet a specific customer requirements. we also maintain a technical customer support group in charleston, south carolina to meet the technical support requirements of independent tube installers that use our x-ray tube and flat panel detector products. 11 table of contents we generally warrant our sip products for 12 months. we provide technical support and service for these products to major oem customers from our offices in las vegas, nevada; lincolnshire, illinois; and buc, france; manama, kingdom of bahrain; crawley, united kingdom; milano, italy; and brussels, belgium. we use the oncology systems customer support services organization in asia, australia and south america. in the varian particle therapy business, we sell our proton therapy equipment generally with a 12-month warranty. we also provide on-site technical support and service for our proton therapy equipment. marketing and sales we employ a combination of direct sales forces and independent distributors or resellers in north america, europe, australia and major parts of asia and latin america for the marketing and sales of our products worldwide. in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we did not have a single customer that represented 10% or more of our total revenues. for our oncology systems segment, we sell direct in north america and use a combination of direct sales and independent distributors in international regions. we also have direct-to-consumer advertising campaigns to increase consumer awareness of oncology systems products. we sell our oncology systems products primarily to university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, physicians offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. these hospitals, institutes, agencies, physicians offices and clinics replace equipment and upgrade treatment capability as technology evolves. sales cycles for our external beam radiotherapy products typically can be quite lengthy since many of them are considered capital equipment and are affected by budgeting cycles. in recent years, we have seen the purchasing cycle lengthen as a result of the more complex decision-making process associated with larger dollar value transactions for more sophisticated igrt and surgical equipment, and other technical advances. our customers frequently fix capital budgets one or more years in advance. in addition, we have seen customers decision-making process further complicated and lengthened, especially in the united states, during the economic downturn, which caused hospitals, clinics and research institutions to more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending in light of tightened capital budgets, tougher credit requirements and the general constriction in credit availability. while the economic downturn has primarily affected our business in north america, other economic turmoil, such as the banking and currency instability in greece and other european countries, may negatively affect our international business. in addition, we believe that the economic downturn had caused customers to delay requested delivery dates. because our product revenues are influenced by the timing of product shipments, which are tied to customer-requested delivery dates, these delivery delays had increased the average order to revenue conversion cycle in the united states. historically, this conversion cycle has been longer when new products are introduced or when we sell more products internationally. the lengthening of order to revenue conversion cycle could reduce our revenues and margins. in addition, our receivables may take longer to collect. reimbursement rates in the united states have generally supported a favorable return on investment for the purchase of new radiotherapy equipment. while we believe that improved product functionality, greater cost-effectiveness and prospects for better clinical outcomes with new capabilities such as imrt, igrt and vmat tend to drive demand for radiotherapy products, large changes in reimbursement rates or reimbursement structure can affect customer demand and cause market shifts. we had seen our customers decision-making process complicated when there was uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states, such as in 2009 when there were proposed reductions in medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery at free-standing clinics. in addition, we are also unable to determine the impact of the recently enacted affordable health care for america act on long-term growth or demand for our products and services. international reimbursement rates for radiation therapy tend to be low in national health systems, yet 12 table of contents international markets continue to invest in better treatment capability, albeit often after it has been proven in the north american region or in other leading research centers worldwide. total oncology systems revenues, including service revenues, were $1.9 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. we divide our market segments for oncology systems revenues into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 46%, 33%, 17% and 4%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2010; 54%, 29%, 14%, and 3%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2009; and 52%, 31%, 12% and 5%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2008. our x-ray products segment employs a combination of direct sales and independent distributors for sales in all of its regions and sells a high proportion of its products to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their imaging systems. the fundamental growth driver of this business segment is the on-going success of our key customers, and we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of x-ray products revenues in the foreseeable future. our oem customers include toshiba corporation, carestream health, inc., hitachi medical corporation, imaging sciences international, inc., philips medical systems, ge healthcare and sound technologies, inc. these oem customers represented 62%, 60%, and 62% of our total x-ray products segment revenues during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, with the remaining revenues coming from a large number of small oems and independent services companies. if reimbursement for or access to diagnostic radiology is affected by the affordable health care for america act and similar state proposals, this will also likely affect demand for our x-ray products. total revenues for our x-ray products segment were $403 million, $331 million and $305 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. we divide our market segments for x-ray products revenues by region into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 32%, 17%, 50% and 1%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2010; 33%, 15%, 49% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2009 and 35%, 15%, 47% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2008. our sip business also uses a combination of direct sales and independent distributors and sells a high proportion of its products to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their systems. as with x-ray products, this business depends on the success of our oem customers, and we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of sip revenues in the foreseeable future. we supply linatron linear accelerators and detector products to oems such as smiths detection, rapiscan systems, inc., american science &amp; engineering, inc. and l-3 communications. we also sell our sip products to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. use of our sip technology in security cargo screening and border protection is still in its early stages, but we believe demand for our sip products will be driven primarily by cargo screening and border protection needs. this business is heavily influenced by governmental policies on homeland security, political change and government budgets. orders and revenues for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or with our oem customers over a short period of time and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have recently encountered with a large government project, which can make the certainty of some sip orders unpredictable. in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we restructured this business and recorded a $2 million restructuring charge to bring costs in line with actual business activity. in the varian particle therapy business, we use direct sales specialist representatives who collaborate globally with our oncology systems sales group on projects. potential customers are government-sponsored hospitals and research institutions and research universities, which typically purchase products through public tenders, and, to a lesser extent, private hospitals, clinics and private developers. while 13 table of contents this market is still developing, we believe that growth in this business will initially develop in the major metropolitan areas in the united states and abroad, driven by institutions that wish to expand their clinical offerings and increase their profile in their respective communities. proton therapy facilities are large-scale construction projects that are time consuming; involve significant customer investment and often complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to general economic and market conditions. customer decision-making cycles tend to be very long, and orders generally involve many contingencies. as with our sip business, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties. we are investing substantial resources to commercialize this technology and to build this new business. we currently have one proton therapy system being commissioned at a customer facility in munich, germany and, as of the end of fiscal year 2010, three of the four treatment gantries at the facility were treating patients. we currently have a conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;enne ( ce ) mark to market our proton therapy systems within the european economic area ( eea ). competition rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software products, including our oncology systems products. we compete with companies worldwide. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. our smaller competitors could be acquired by companies with greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. some of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues. furthermore, we believe that new competitors will enter our markets, as we encountered new competitors enter new markets such as stereotactic radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) greater interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) enhancing the ease of use of our software products and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput. we have emphasized maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation therapy. we anticipate that these efforts will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, vmat and igrt and will stimulate demand for our products from new customers and upgrades from existing customers. we face competition though from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our financial results could suffer. our oncology systems customers equipment purchase considerations typically include: reliability, servicing, patient throughput, precision, price, payment terms, connectivity, clinical features, the ability to track patient referral, long-term relationship with customers and capabilities of customers existing equipment. we believe we compete favorably with our competitors based upon our strategy of providing a complete package of products and services in the field of radiation oncology and our continued commitment to global distribution and customer service, value-added manufacturing, technological leadership and new product innovation. to complete successfully, we must provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. in addition, additional competitors may 14 table of contents delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affect our net orders. we are the leading provider of medical linear accelerators and related accessories. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab, siemens medical solutions, tomotherapy incorporated and accuray incorporated. with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, best theratronics, ltd., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. we also encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. with respect to our brachytherapy operations, our competitors are nucletron b.v. and ibt bebig s.a. for the service and maintenance business for our oncology systems products, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. in addition, as a radiotherapy and radiosurgery equipment provider, we also face competition from alternative cancer treatment methods, such as traditional surgery, chemotherapy, robotic surgery and drug therapies, among others. to compete successfully, we need to demonstrate and convince our customers of the advantages of radiation therapy over other cancer treatment alternatives. in x-ray imaging components and subsystems, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and/or performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems and ge healthcare, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. we incorporate our flat panel detectors into our equipment for igrt within our oncology systems and also sell to a number of oems, which incorporate our flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. our amorphous silicon based flat panel detector technology competes with other detector technologies such as amorphous selenium, charge-coupled devices and variations of amorphous silicon scintillators. we believe that our product provides a competitive advantage due to lower product cost and better product quality and performance. for flat panel detectors, our significant customers include carestream health, inc., toshiba corporation and imaging sciences international inc., and we primarily compete against perkin-elmer, inc., trixell s.a.s., samsung electronics and canon, inc. in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states in the security and inspection market, and our major competitor is nuctech company limited. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fractured and there is no single major competitor in this nondestructive testing market. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to complete the development of our commercial proton therapy system, lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. in the proton therapy market, we compete principally with ion beam applications s.a., hitachi medical corporation and still river systems, inc. 15 table of contents research and development developing products, systems and services based on advanced technology is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. we maintain a research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. research and development expenses totaled $157 million, $147 million and $136 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. our research and development are conducted both within the relevant product groups of our businesses and through gtc. gtc maintains technical expertise in x-ray technology, accelerator technology, imaging physics and applications, algorithms and software, electronic design, materials science and biosciences to prove feasibility of new product concepts and to improve current products. present research topics include new imaging concepts, image-based radiotherapy treatment planning and delivery, real time accommodation of moving targets, functional imaging and combined modality therapy, manufacturing process improvements, improved x-ray tubes and large-area, high resolution digital x-ray sensor arrays for cone-beam ct and other applications. gtc is also pursuing the potential of combining advances in directed energy and imaging technology with the latest breakthroughs in biotechnology by employing targeted energy to enhance the effectiveness of biological and chemical therapeutic agents. in addition, gtc is investigating the use of x-ray and high energy accelerator, detector, and image processing technology for security applications. gtc accepts some sponsored research contracts from external agencies such as the u.s. government or private sources. within oncology systems, our development efforts focus on enhancing the reliability and performance of existing products and developing new products. this development is conducted primarily in the united states, switzerland, canada, england, finland and india. in addition, we support research and development programs at selected hospitals and clinics. current areas for development within oncology systems include linear accelerator systems and accessories for medical applications, information systems, radiation treatment planning software, image processing software, imaging devices, simulation, patient positioning and equipment diagnosis and maintenance tools. much of the oncology systems development efforts relate to our next generation linear accelerators; enhancements to igrt and imrt; our monte carlo and dose calculation algorithms for our treatment planning software products; and our new electronic health records within our information management software. within x-ray products, development is conducted at our salt lake city, utah and mountain view, california facilities and is primarily focused on developing and improving x-ray imaging component and subsystem products. current x-ray tube development areas include improvements to tube life and tube stability and reduction of tube noise. we are also working on x-ray tube designs which will operate at higher power loadings and at higher ct rotational speed to enhance the performance of next generation ct scanners as well as x-ray tubes to enhance the performance of our flat panel detectors. research in flat panel imaging technology is aimed at developing new panel technologies for low cost radiographic imaging, flexible panel interfaces and cone beam ct. within varian particle therapy, our development efforts focus on productization of proton accelerators, reducing space requirement and cost in the treatment delivery room through the development of innovative patient positioning and motion management technology. we expect that, in order to realize the full potential of the varian particle therapy business, we will need to invest substantial resources to properly develop and commercialize proton therapy technology and build this new business. manufacturing and supplies we manufacture our medical linear accelerators in palo alto, california and in beijing, china. our treatment simulator systems and some accelerator subsystems are manufactured in crawley, united kingdom and some of our other accessory products in baden, switzerland; helsinki, finland; toulouse, france and winnipeg, canada. we manufacture our high dose rate brachytherapy systems in crawley, united kingdom and haan, germany and our brachytherapy treatment planning products in 16 table of contents charlottesville, virginia. our sip linear accelerators and certain radiographic products are manufactured in las vegas, nevada, and lincolnshire, illinois, respectively. we manufacture components and sub-systems for our proton therapy products and systems in troisdorf, germany and we plan to develop additional manufacturing facilities as needed for this business. we manufacture our x-ray imaging component and subsystem and flat panel detector products in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; willich, germany; and bejing, china. these facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques, and several have been honored by the press, governments and trade organizations for their commitment to quality improvement. except for the lincolnshire, illinois and winnipeg, canada facilities, these manufacturing facilities are certified by international standards organization ( iso ) under iso 9001 (for sip) or iso 13485 (for medical devices). manufacturing processes at our various facilities include machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly and final testing. we have invested in various automated and semi-automated equipment for the fabrication and machining of the parts and assemblies that we incorporate into our products. we may, from time to time, invest further in such equipment. our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw material, purchased parts and assemblies through on-line inspection. we also receive subassemblies from third-party suppliers and integrate them into a finished system. we outsource the manufacturing of many major subassemblies and perform system design, assembly and testing in-house. we believe outsourcing enables us to reduce fixed costs and capital expenditures, while also providing us with the flexibility to increase production capacity. we purchase material and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high-dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other x-ray tube components. we require certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray products, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for the varian particle therapy business. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. backlog our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2010 was $2.2 billion, of which we expect to recognize approximately 50% to 55% as revenues in fiscal year 2011. including a $62 million proton therapy system order from skandion kliniken that was subsequently cancelled, our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2009 was $2.1 billion, of which $1.1 billion was recognized as revenues in fiscal year 2010. our oncology systems backlog represented 91% and 87% of the total backlog at the end of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. except for varian particle therapy orders, we only recognize orders when product shipment or construction of certain highly customized sip products is expected to occur within two years and only if any contingencies are deemed perfunctory. in addition, we do not recognize sip orders from governmental agencies with bid protest provisions until the expiration of the bid protest period. for our varian particle therapy business, we recognize orders when construction of the related proton therapy treatment center is reasonably expected to start within two years. also, we only recognize orders for varian particle therapy products with contingencies if we deem the contingencies perfunctory or if we publicly disclose the existence and nature of material contingencies. however, orders will not be recognized if there are major financing contingencies or customer board approval contingencies pending. backlog also includes a small portion of service contracts when they become billable, as well as the amount of deferred revenue and revenue related to acceptance. we perform a semi-annual review to verify that orders in our backlog remain valid. this review identifies aged orders and confirms these orders with our internal sales organization or our customers. aged orders which are not expected to be converted to revenues during this backlog review are deemed dormant and are no longer included in the 17 table of contents reported backlog. orders may be revised or canceled, either according to their terms or as customers needs change; consequently, it is difficult to predict with certainty the amount of backlog that will result in revenues. in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we reversed $124 million (which includes the cancellation of the $62 million proton therapy system order), $71 million and $70 million, respectively, of orders due to adjustments, revisions or cancellations. our reported net orders included all backlog reversals. product and other liabilities our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products operate within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the fact that our products operate in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operate according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products, or their misuse or failure, as well as liability related to the loss or misuse of private patient data. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or installation, servicing and support of our products. with any accident or mistreatment, we could be subject to legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in addition, if a product we designed or manufactured were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. government regulation u.s. regulation as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the food and drug administration ( fda ), nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ), and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. these regulations, which include the u.s. food, drug and cosmetic act (the fdc act ) and regulations promulgated by the fda, govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of medical devices, post-market surveillance, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation emitting devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. state regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. our oncology systems equipment and software, as well as proton therapy systems offered by our varian particle therapy business, constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors produced by x-ray products are also considered medical devices. future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation. these laws require that 18 table of contents manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. under the fdc act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with requirements applicable to good manufacturing practices. our manufacturing operations for medical devices are required to comply with the fda quality system regulation ( qsr ), which addresses a company responsibility for quality systems, the requirements of good manufacturing practices and relate to product design, testing, and manufacturing quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. the qsr requires that each manufacturer establish a quality systems program by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with fda regulations and the manufacturer written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. qsr compliance is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new and existing products. among other things, these regulations require that manufacturers establish performance requirements before production. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers and may issue reports, known as form fda 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or warning letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures which, if not adequately responded to, could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, including criminal and civil fines and total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. inspections usually occur every two years. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre market notification clearance or pre market approval ( pma ) before the manufacturer can market and sell those products in the united states. for proton therapy systems, a 510(k) pre market notification clearance is required prior to the system being used for treating patients. the 510(k) clearance process is applicable when the new product being developed is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device. the process of obtaining 510(k) clearance generally takes at least one to three months from the date the application is filed and generally requires submitting supporting design and testing data, which can be extensive and can lengthen the process considerably beyond three months. after a product receives 510(k) clearance, any modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with the manufacturer decision, it may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a request for 510(k) pre-market notification clearance and can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the product until 510(k) clearance is obtained. if we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market approval through a pma application. under the pma process, the applicant must generally conduct at least one clinical protocol and submit extensive supporting data and clinical information in the pma application to prove the safety and effectiveness of the product. this process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pre-market approval is accepted for filing, but can take longer for the fda to review. to date, we have produced class 1 medical devices, which require no pre-market approvals or clearances, and class 2 medical devices, which require only 510(k) clearance. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are class 1 medical devices, while all of the products produced by our oncology systems segment and the proton therapy systems manufactured by our varian particle therapy business are class 2 medical devices. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. 19 table of contents it is also important that our products comply with electrical safety and environmental standards, such as those of underwriters laboratories ( ul ), the canadian standards association ( csa ), and the international electrotechnical commission ( iec ). in addition, the manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive by-product material requires a specific radioactive material license. manufacture and distribution of these radioactive sources and devices also must be in accordance with an approved nrc certificate, or an agreement state registration certificate. service of these products must be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. we are also subject to a variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. for a further discussion of these laws and regulations, see md&amp;a environmental remediation liabilities. if we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with fda and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressure from our competitors; investigations or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; losses of clearances or approvals already granted, or the refusal of future requests for clearance or approval; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; the inability to sell our products; difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and criminal prosecutions. other applicable regulations. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ) and similar laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including, physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, hipaa was recently amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), enacted as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. the hitech act significantly increases the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under hipaa. furthermore, business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in 20 table of contents recent years, both in the united states and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. medicare and medicaid reimbursement the federal and state governments of the u.s. establish guidelines and pay reimbursements to hospitals and free-standing clinics for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures under medicare at the federal level and medicaid at the state level. private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government. the federal government and the congress review and adjust rates annually, and from time to time consider various medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services, including radiotherapy and radiosurgery, in hospitals and free-standing clinics. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. in recent years, we have also seen dramatic reductions in medicare reimbursements for diagnostic radiology. we believe reductions in these medicare reimbursement rates have reduced demand for medical x-ray imaging equipment, such as ct scanners, which have negatively impacted demand for our x-ray tube and flat panel detector products. state government reimbursement for services is determined pursuant to each state medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law and regulations. the balanced budget act of 1997 revised the medicaid program to give each state more control over coverage and payment issues. in addition, the u.s. centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the medicaid program at the state level. the impact on our business of this greater state control on medicaid payment for diagnostic services remains uncertain. we are continuing to evaluate the recently enacted affordable health care for america act. specifically, one of the components of the new law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems products, starting in 2013. this tax may put increased pressure on medical device manufacturers and purchasers, and may lead our customers to reduce their orders for products we produce or to request that we reduce the prices we charge for our products in order to offset the tax. other elements of this new legislation, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and other provisions, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we believe that the uncertainty created by healthcare reform in the united states has complicated our customers decision-making process and impacted our oncology systems business, and we expect that this uncertainty will persist until there is greater clarity on how the affordable health care for america act and state proposals will affect healthcare providers. the sale of medical devices including radiotherapy products, the referral of patients for diagnostic examinations and treatments utilizing such devices, and the submission of claims to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) seeking reimbursement for such services, are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. these laws include physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. subject to enumerated exceptions, the federal physician self-referral law, also known as stark ii, prohibits a physician from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity with which the physician (or a family member) has a financial relationship, if the referral is for a designated health service, which is defined explicitly to include 21 table of contents radiology and radiation therapy services. anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, induce, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of business, including the purchase of medical devices from a particular manufacturer or the referral of patients to a particular supplier of diagnostic services utilizing such devices. false claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent, for services not provided as claimed, or for medically unnecessary services. the office of the inspector general prosecutes violations of fraud and abuse laws and any violation may result in criminal and/or civil sanctions including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid. foreign regulation our operations, sales and service of our products outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. we are also subject to laws and regulations outside the united states applicable to manufacturers of radiation-producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each case that are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, regulations in the united states. in addition, our sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, environmental and product recycling requirements, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. we rely in some countries on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. the european union ( eu ) implemented a medical device directive that requires us to affix the ce mark to our products in order to sell them in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eu. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside the eu, such as australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to receive permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we must obtain quality system certification, e.g., iso 13485, and must otherwise have a quality management system that complies with the eu medical device directives. the iso promulgates standards for certification of quality assurance operations. we are certified as complying with the iso 9001 for our sip products and iso 13485 for our medical devices. several asian countries, including japan and china, have adopted regulatory schemes that are comparable, and in some cases more stringent, than the eu scheme. to import medical devices into japan, the requirements of japan new medical device regulation must be met and a shonin, the approval to sell medical products in japan, must be obtained. similarly, in china a registration certification issued by the state food and drug administration and a china compulsory certification mark for certain products are required to sell medical devices in that country. obtaining such certifications on our products can be time-consuming and can cause us to delay marketing or sales of certain products in such countries. similarly, prior to selling a device in canada, manufacturers of class ii, iii and iv devices must obtain a medical device license. we sell class ii and class iii devices in canada. additionally, many countries have laws and regulations relating to radiation and radiation safety that also apply to our products. in most countries, radiological regulatory agencies require some form of licensing or registration by the facility prior to acquisition and operation of an x-ray generating device or a radiation source. the handling, transportation and the recycling of radioactive metals and source materials are also highly regulated. a number of countries, including the members of the eu, have implemented or are implementing regulations that would require manufacturers to dispose, or bear certain disposal costs, of products at the end of a product useful life and restrict the use of some hazardous substances in certain products sold in those countries. for a further discussion of these regulations, see md&amp;a critical accounting 22 table of contents estimates and environmental remediation liabilities. also, many countries where we sell our products have legislation protecting the confidentiality of personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released for inclusion in our databases, or released to third parties. patent and other proprietary rights we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes, because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace. we generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights in the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. as of october 1, 2010, we owned 267 patents issued in the united states and 74 patents issued throughout the rest of the world and had 341 patent applications on file with various patent agencies worldwide. we intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we also have agreements with third parties that provide for licensing of patented or proprietary technology, including royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. environmental matters for a discussion of environmental matters, see government regulation foreign regulation and md&amp;a environmental remediation liabilities, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference. financial information about geographic areas we do business globally with manufacturing in the united states, europe and china and with sales and service operations and customers throughout the world. roughly half of our revenues are generated from our international regions. in addition to the potentially adverse impact of foreign regulations, see government regulation foreign regulation, we also may be affected by other factors related to our international sales such as: lower average selling prices and profit margins; longer time periods from shipment to revenue recognition (which increases revenue recognition deferrals and time in backlog); and longer time periods from shipment to cash collection (which increases days sales outstanding ( dso ). so to the extent that the geographic distribution of our sales continues to shift more towards international regions, our overall revenues and margins may suffer. we sell our products internationally predominantly in local currencies, but our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. accordingly, there may be adverse consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect both the affordability and competitiveness of our products and our profit margins. we do engage in currency hedging strategies to offset the effect of currency exchange fluctuations, but the protection offered by these hedges depends upon the timing of transactions, forecast volatility, effectiveness of such hedges and the extent of currency fluctuation. we are also exposed to other economic, political and other risks inherent in doing business globally. for an additional discussion of these risks, see risk factors. for a discussion of financial information about geographic areas, see note 14, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 23 table of contents discontinued operations in september 2008, we approved a plan to sell research instruments, which developed, manufactured and serviced highly customized scientific instrument components and systems for fundamental and applied physics research primarily for national research laboratories worldwide. the sale of research instruments was completed in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. in fiscal year 2010, we recognized an additional loss of $7.1 million for additional cost to settle one customer contract and estimated costs to complete and settle the other customer contract, both of which were related to the sale of research instruments. we have classified research instruments as a discontinued operation in our consolidated statements of earnings and consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. see note 15, discontinued operations of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for detailed discussion. the operations of research instruments were conducted from bergisch gladbach, germany. research instruments was previously included with the varian particle therapy business, which is reported under the other category in note 14, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we decided to sell research instruments in order to focus exclusively on the development of our varian particle therapy business. employees we had approximately 5,300 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 3,100 in the united states and 2,200 elsewhere at october 1, 2010. none of our employees based in the united states are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. employees based in some foreign countries may, from time to time, be subject to collective bargaining agreements. we currently consider our relations with our employees to be good. information available to investors as soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the sec we make the following available free of charge on the investors page of our website http://www.varian.com : our annual reports on form 10-k; quarterly reports on form 10-q; and current reports on form 8-k (including any amendments to those reports); and our proxy statements. our code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit committee, compensation and management development committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available on the investors page of our website. please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed filed with the sec and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), or the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). executive officers of the registrant the biographical summaries of our executive officers, as of october 1, 2010, as of are as follows: name age position timothy e. guertin 61 president and chief executive officer dow r. wilson 51 corporate executive vice president and president, oncology systems elisha w. finney 49 corporate senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer robert h. kluge 64 corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products tai-yun chen 58 corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller john w. kuo 47 corporate vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary timothy e. guertin has been chief executive officer since february 2006 and president since august 2005. previously, mr. guertin served as chief operating officer from october 2004 to february 2006, and corporate executive vice president from october 2002 to august 2005. mr. guertin also served as president of our oncology systems business unit from 1992 to january 2005. mr. guertin was corporate 24 table of contents vice president from 1992 to 2002. mr. guertin has held various other positions in the medical systems business during his 34 years with the company. mr. guertin holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the university of california at berkeley. dow r. wilson was appointed corporate executive vice president and president, oncology systems in august 2005. mr. wilson served as corporate vice president and president, oncology systems from january 2005 to august 2005. prior to joining the company in january 2005, mr. wilson was chief executive officer of the healthcare-information technologies business in general electric (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. previously, mr. wilson served as general manager, surgical, x-ray and interventional businesses and general manager, functional imaging of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2002 to 2003, and was general manager, computed tomography of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2000 to 2002. during the previous 15 years, mr. wilson held various management positions within general electric. mr. wilson holds a b.a. degree in english from brigham young university and an m.b.a. degree from dartmouth amos tuck school of business. mr. wilson has served on the board of directors of saba software, inc. (an e-learning software provider) since august 2006. elisha w. finney was appointed corporate senior vice president, finance, in addition to being chief financial officer, in january 2005. ms. finney was corporate vice president and chief financial officer from april 1999 to january 2005. ms. finney has held various other positions during her 22 years with the company including treasurer. ms. finney holds a b.b.a. degree in risk management and insurance from the university of georgia and an m.b.a. degree from golden gate university in san francisco. ms. finney was appointed a director of thoratec corporation (a medical device manufacturer) in june 2007. robert h. kluge was appointed corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products of the company in february 2008. prior to that, mr. kluge served as corporate vice president and president, x-ray products from december 1999 to february 2008 and as vice president and general manager of our x-ray products business from 1993 to december 1999. before joining the company in 1993, mr. kluge held various positions with picker international (an x-ray systems manufacturer). mr. kluge holds a b.a. degree in economics and an m.b.a. degree in finance from the university of wisconsin. tai-yun chen was appointed corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller in august 2006. from february 2006 to august 2006, ms. chen served as the company operations controller. prior to that, from january 2002 to february 2006, ms. chen was the company assistant corporate controller, and from 2000 to january 2002 ms. chen was the company director of corporate accounting. ms. chen has served in various accounting management positions throughout the company during her 27 years with the company. ms. chen holds a bachelor degree in economics from the national chung chi university in taiwan and a master degree in managerial economics from the university of california at santa barbara. john w. kuo was appointed corporate vice president, general counsel in july 2005 and corporate secretary in february 2005. mr. kuo joined the company as senior corporate counsel in march 2003 and became associate general counsel in march 2004. prior to joining the company, mr. kuo was general counsel and secretary at broadvision, inc. (an e-commerce software provider) in 2002 and held senior legal positions at 3com corporation (a networking equipment provider) from 1997 to 2002. mr. kuo has previously been with the law firms of gray cary ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper) and fulbright &amp; jaworski. mr. kuo holds a b.a. degree from cornell university and a j.d. degree from boalt hall school of law at the university of california at berkeley. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less 25 table of contents significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. if our products and product lines fail to continue to meet customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer we believe that imrt, including vmat, and igrt have become accepted standards for treatment in the radiation oncology market. demand for our imrt and igrt products have been historical drivers for our net orders and revenues in oncology systems and, because of the significance of oncology systems, on our business in general. we recently introduced unique, a low-energy linear accelerator for more price sensitive markets in international regions, and truebeam, a new line of linear accelerators for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, to meet the evolving needs of our imrt and igrt customers. we also believe that our rapidarc products for vmat, are a significant advance in imrt treatments and can help drive longer term demand for our linear accelerators and imrt-related products. orders for these new products and products lines have contributed greatly to our recent orders growth and are keys to our future success. if our customers do not purchase these products or if future studies call into question the effectiveness of these or our other imrt or igrt products (including other vmat products) or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our net orders, revenues and financial results could suffer. in addition, if third party information systems do not support our vmat technology, customers that have third party information systems may not purchase our rapidarc products, which could negatively impact our net orders and revenues. as more institutions buy or upgrade to achieve these capabilities, the market for imrt and igrt products (including vmat products) may become saturated. alternatively, the marketplace may conclude that functions and features of our products should no longer be an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. our x-ray products business sells products primarily to a small number of imaging system oem customers who use our products in their medical diagnostic and industrial imaging systems. to succeed, we must provide x-ray tube and flat panel detector products that meet customer demands for lower cost, better product quality and superior technology and performance. flat panel detectors for filmless x-ray imaging have been driving net orders and revenues in the x-ray products segment, with our newly introduced radiographic panels accountable for a significant part of that expansion. if we are unable to continue to innovate our x-ray products technology and anticipate our customers demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our customers may purchase from other tube or panel manufacturers (including the in-house operations of some of these customers), which would negatively impact this business. in both the oncology systems and x-ray products businesses, and in our other product lines, we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers. our competitors may develop products or processes that are superior to what we can then offer. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the markets for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products and enhancements to existing product lines rapid change and technological innovation characterize the oncology systems market. our products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the 26 table of contents marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing product lines. our oncology systems products, including new products such as truebeam and rapidarc, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, if not be superior to, the products of our competitors. our x-ray products business must also continually develop improved and lower cost products. we are making significant investments in long-term growth initiatives, such as development of our sip and particle therapy businesses, and expect that we will need more investment to develop and commercialize the products and technology for these businesses. accordingly, many of our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing, as well as significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part. we may need to spend more time and money than we expect to develop and introduce new products or enhancements and, even if we succeed, they may not be sufficiently profitable that we are able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, and could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact our success with new products or enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; prove the feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; appropriately manage our supply chain; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the food and drug administration ( fda ). failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. new products generally take longer to install than well-established products. because a portion of a product revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. in addition, even if we succeed in our product introductions, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment, or 27 table of contents customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. roughly half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 57%, 50% and 52% of revenues from continuing operations during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so, although we cannot be sure we will be able to meet our sales, service and support objectives or obligations, or recover our investments. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country legal systems; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the imposition by foreign countries of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade; the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in international regions; the longer period from shipment to revenue recognition that generally results in greater revenue recognition deferrals and higher backlog; any inability to obtain export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in a foreign jurisdiction; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international regions have represented a larger share of our business. the more we depend on sales in international regions, the more vulnerable we become to these factors. as of october 1, 2010, 92% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, they could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the respective countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. earnings from our international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. a decrease in the percentage of our total earnings from international regions, or a change in the mix of international regions among particular tax jurisdictions, 28 table of contents could increase our effective tax rate. also, we are not currently taxed in the united states on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or u.s. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed or actually remitted to the united states, or if tax laws change, in which case our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, congress has recently considered proposals that would significantly change u.s. taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations. although we cannot predict whether or in what form congress would enact any such proposals, legislation of this type could negatively impact our effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results. our results have been and may continue to be harmed by the worldwide economic downturn since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis; the credit market crisis; collateral effects on the finance and banking industries; volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs; concerns about inflation (deflation), slower economic activity, consumer confidence, corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity and unemployment. these conditions have shrunk capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and more time consuming to obtain, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. this, in turn, has caused and may continue to cause our customers to freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, and may result in consolidation of our customers. even with economic recovery, it may take time for our customers to establish new budgets and return to normal purchasing patterns. these conditions may also disrupt supply if vendors consolidate or go out of business. as with our customers and vendors, such conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. we cannot predict the strength or sustainability of an economic recovery, in general or specifically in the healthcare industry. historically, our business has felt the effects of market trends later than other sectors in the healthcare industry, such as diagnostic radiology, and we may experience the effects of any economic recovery later than others in the healthcare industry. a continued weak or deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. also, while the economic downturn has primarily affected our business in north america, other economic turmoil, such as the banking and currency instability in greece and other european countries, may negatively affect our international business. the recently enacted affordable healthcare for america act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the affordable health care for america act. while we are continuing to evaluate this legislation and its potential impact on our business, it may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the new law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems products, starting in 2013. the congressional budget office estimates that the total cost to the medical device industry could exceed $20 billion over ten years. this tax may put increased pressure on medical device manufacturers and purchasers, and may lead our customers to reduce their orders for products we produce or to request that we reduce the prices we charge for our products in order to off-set the tax. other elements of this new legislation, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and other provisions, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the 29 table of contents demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we believe that the uncertainty created by healthcare reform in the united states has complicated our customers decision-making process and impacted our oncology systems business, and we expect that this uncertainty will persist until there is greater clarity on how the affordable health care for america act and state proposals will affect healthcare providers. we are unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding these matters will have on our customer purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. changes to radiation oncology reimbursements may affect demand for our products sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, third-party payors in the united states are increasingly cost-conscious, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products in this market. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will qualify for reimbursement from third-party payors. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by the u.s. centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. if comparative effectiveness studies are not available, or if available studies show that other cancer treatments are more effective than radiotherapy or radiosurgery, reimbursement rates for radiotherapy or radiosurgery could be reduced. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand or our expenses and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we provide in foreign markets. 30 table of contents while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, and the effectiveness of those strategies, the number of transactions that are hedged, forecast volatility and the extent to which exchange rates have changed. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues and other operating results may be harmed. in addition, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. furthermore, on july 21, 2010, president obama signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ). the dodd-frank act contains provisions which may impact our existing hedging strategies, but we cannot predict those effects at this time. in addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. even though our international sales are mostly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. the volatility of the u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, some of which may have cost structures based in other currencies, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of the economic downturn or in reaction thereto, or in the united states as a result of a change in the u.s. laws or regulations, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could prevent us from distributing our products or result in significant penalties our products and those of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation, both in the united states and in foreign countries. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. marketing a medical device in the united states. in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ) and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. similar international regulations apply overseas. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval ( pma ) before we can market or sell those products in the united states. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may also require a new 510(k) clearance. obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for those products. if we were unable to obtain required fda clearance or approval for a product or unduly 31 table of contents delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business would suffer. in the past, in the united states, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. the 510(k) clearance process is generally less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the pma process. however, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the pma approval process, or a special more time-consuming 510(k) clearance process, rather than the current 510(k) clearance process. if we were required to use either of these lengthy processes for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. marketing a medical device internationally. in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the eea, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, expensive, and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. if we do not obtain the clearance or approvals on one or more of our products, or are unduly delayed in doing so, or if a clearance or approval includes significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, the market for the affected products would be negatively impacted. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the relevant regulatory requirements and, when used as intended, works properly and is acceptably safe. this conformity to the applicable directives is done through self-declaration and may be verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body. once clearance is obtained and the ce mark is affixed to the device, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws or directives. ce marking demonstrates that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries to allow free movement of trade within the eea countries. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and directives, we lose our ce mark, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eea. significant revisions to some of the applicable regulations governing requirements for medical devices in the eea went into effect in march 2010. these revisions have introduced additional uncertainty into the marketing authorization process for medical devices in europe. until medical device manufacturers and european regulatory agencies, including notified bodies and competent authorities, have greater experience with interpreting and applying the revised regulations, we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify installed products in order to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. quality systems, audits and failure to comply. our manufacturing operations are required to comply with the fda qsr, and other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products that address a company responsibility for complying with the quality systems regulations, which include the requirements for current good manufacturing practices. the fda makes announced and unannounced inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections has issued, and in the future may issue, reports, known as form fda 483 reports (listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures), or warning letters citing failure to comply with applicable regulations or procedures. if a warning letter were issued, we would be required to take prompt corrective action to come into compliance. failure to respond timely to a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities and criminal and civil fines. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors, who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda and other international regulatory authorities, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations, and 32 table of contents similar international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a corrections and removals report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda and other international regulatory agencies regarding the quality and safety of our devices. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive international, federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among countries or regions. our manufacture, distribution, installation and service of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. obtaining licenses and certifications may be time consuming, expensive and uncertain. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions and may be required to revise our promotional claims or make other corrections or restitutions. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors or customers fail to comply with fda, ftc and other applicable u.s. and foreign country regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations by governmental authorities or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals, or the equivalent approvals in foreign countries; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; 33 table of contents the inability to sell our products, or, where we have failed to comply with foreign regulations, to import our products to such countries; difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and criminal prosecutions. other applicable regulations. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ) and similar laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including, physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, hipaa was recently amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), enacted as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. the hitech act significantly increases the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under hipaa. furthermore, business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in recent years, both in the united states and internationally, toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers and requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that may flow to us as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. compliance with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products may be costly, and failure to comply may result in penalties regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the united states vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the united states. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. we may be required to incur significant time and expense in obtaining and 34 table of contents maintaining regulatory approvals. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. violating anti-kickback and false claims laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several recently enacted state and federal laws, including the laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act, now require, among other things, extensive tracking, maintenance of data bases regarding and disclosures of relationships and payments to physicians and healthcare providers. these laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certain payments to healthcare providers. failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, within the european union ( eu ), the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states of the eu. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, antitrust and anti-competition laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, any violation of which could create a substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an 35 table of contents adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, we may become subject to laws, rules and regulations, such as fda regulations applicable to clinical trials. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could be quite costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products operate within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operate according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products, or their misuse or failure, as well as liability related to the loss or misuse of private patient data. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments, even ones that do not involve our products, could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy treatments, causing them to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and seek other methods of treatment and adversely impacting our business. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation of radiation therapy, medical devices or the healthcare industry in general. increased regulatory activities could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products, and therefore negatively impact our business and results of operations. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a recall could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, lost revenues and loss accruals under gaap that may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may also prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability 36 table of contents that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, we could have to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. also, we believe that new competitors will enter our markets, as we have encountered new competitors as we enter new markets such as stereotactic radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. in addition, additional competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affect our net orders. in x-ray imaging components and subsystems, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers who compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fractured. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to complete the development of our commercial proton therapy system, lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. in each of our business segments, existing competitors actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies 37 table of contents that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. open architecture is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to achieve this as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. our equipment and software is highly sophisticated and requires a high level of training and education to use them competently and safely, a requirement made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) greater interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) enhancing the ease of use of our software products and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput. we have emphasized maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our various individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation therapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and vmat and will stimulate demand for our products. we face competition though from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining this interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with other widely used radiation oncology products manufactured by other companies, if this cannot be done, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. when we implement design improvements to our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to us to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, and in either case our competitive position would be harmed if we are not able to do so we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. 38 table of contents we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products the industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies products for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, and we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so if we are unsuccessful in defending an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our products, or may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. required licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms or at all. the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other x-ray tube components. if we lose any of these suppliers or if their operations were substantially interrupted, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of such product by the fda or other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material 39 table of contents delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have insurance to protect against business interruption loss, this insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. additionally, some of our suppliers, including some of our single-source suppliers, supply components for certain of our rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of these suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs by increasing prices. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. a shortage of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray products, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for the varian particle therapy business. demand for these raw materials both within the united states and from foreign countries, such as china, has increased over the last few years, resulting in limited supplies and higher prices. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted and prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. as customers consolidate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity. as a result, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen, as orders increase in size and require more customer approvals. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our net orders to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in net orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. we sell our x-ray tubes to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, and a reduction in business by one or more of these customers or consolidation of customers could reduce our sales there has been a consolidation of diagnostic imaging systems manufacturers over the past few years, including the consolidation of these customers into companies that already manufacture x-ray tubes. if this continues, we could experience less predictable and reduced sales of our x-ray tube products. in addition, the economic downturn has made it difficult for our oem customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and we saw our x-ray business impacted in fiscal year 2009 by inventory reduction efforts at some of these customers. in recent years, we have also seen dramatic reductions in medicare reimbursements for diagnostic radiology. we believe reductions in these medicare 40 table of contents reimbursement rates have reduced demand for medical x-ray imaging equipment, such as ct scanners, which have negatively impacted demand for our x-ray tube products. also, because we sell our x-ray products to a limited number of oem customers and many of them are also our competitors with in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations, we could experience the loss of, or reduction in purchasing volume by, one or more of these customers if they lower external sourcing costs. such a loss or reduction could have a material adverse effect on our x-ray products business. orders for our security and inspection products could be unpredictable our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in the sip business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. however, use of linear accelerator and imaging technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. orders for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or our oem customers in a short time period, and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. because it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery and acceptance schedules, the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly. in addition, our sip business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to political changes. we have seen customers freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have recently encountered with a large government project, which can make the certainty of some sip orders unpredictable. as a result, this business is subject to unpredictability in the timing of orders, sales and revenue that could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of a new treatment procedure such as imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiosurgery or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products. for example, the complexity and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of imrt and igrt and the required departures from their customary practices. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat, stereotactic radiosurgery and proton therapy generally and to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies. future products may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense on their education. 41 table of contents our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel, technical personnel and sales and marketing staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because this competition is intense, costs related to compensation could increase significantly if supply decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business, and our business would suffer. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer our products have a long production cycle and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders timely, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or may harm our business we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, in fiscal year 2009 we acquired certain assets of ikoe, a supplier of software used in the planning of radiotherapy and radiosurgery treatments. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we are experiencing with our proton therapy systems, which could impact our results of operations. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. even if we do so, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies, growth or benefits we expected. if we decide to sell assets or a business, as we did in fiscal year 2008 with research instruments, it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or we may dispose of a business at a lower price or on less advantageous terms than we had anticipated. we account for our acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. under this method, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable 42 table of contents intangible assets and in-process research and development costs based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as proton therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with this, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks in the development and implementation of new businesses successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not be able to successfully resolve residual issues related to the sale of our research instruments business in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we completed the sale of research instruments. we retained the responsibility for one contract as of the end of fiscal year 2010. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, additional costs beyond those expected with the remaining contract which could adversely affect our financial condition. continued efforts related to managing the remaining contract have required, and may likely continue to require, a substantial amount of management, administrative, financial and operational resources, particularly as unanticipated difficulties with the fulfillment of these contracts are encountered. these demands may distract our employees and management from the day-to-day operation of our other businesses. if we are not able to successfully resolve these residual retained responsibilities in a timely manner, we may be subject of lawsuits, financial penalties and costs and further management, administrative and operational distraction, all of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we work with distributors for sales in some territories, and losing them could harm our revenues in that territory we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in europe and asia. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales in these territories and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly net orders, revenues, and margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and margins. drivers of orders include timing of announcement of and 43 table of contents introduction of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and expect this to be even greater with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. as a result of the recent worldwide economic downturn and contraction in credit markets, as well as the uncertainty surrounding the impact of healthcare reform and changes to reimbursement rates, the purchasing cycle has extended and may extend even further as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles even further. the timing of when individual orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues and the timing include: delay in shipment due, for example, to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations or rescheduling by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters or port strikes; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; for proton therapy systems, failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; timing of revenue recognition; a change in a customer financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of appropriate regulatory approvals or authorizations. our quarterly operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors pricing or discount levels; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by the international regions; fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; changes in the general economic conditions or tightening of credit available to our customers; the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our x-ray products; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry; and 44 table of contents accounting changes, such as those relating to accounting reserves for product recalls, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, share-based compensation expense, accounting for income taxes, and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which are presently below the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. high levels of order cancellation or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce the quarterly net orders and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. our net orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. the financial results of our varian particle therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable the acquisition of the business we now call varian particle therapy should enable us to develop and offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. our success in this area will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. however, this technology may not be accepted as quickly as others. since proton therapy projects are highly customized and are generally large and more complex, planning for these projects will take more time and use more resources than those in the radiotherapy business conducted in our oncology systems segment. due to its relatively large scale, the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. the worldwide economic downturn resulted in a contraction in credit markets. to the extent this persists, it may make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request our participation in financing arrangements or payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could impact our operating results. in addition, due to their size and complexity, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years. as a result, the timing of these projects, and therefore our operating results for this business, may vary significantly from period to period. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of our varian particle therapy business for the foreseeable future. because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large, an order in one fiscal period will cause our financial results to vary significantly, making comparisons between fiscal periods more difficult. further, the award of a proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make the certainty of these orders unpredictable. if a customer cancels an order for a proton therapy system, such as recently occurred with the order for a proton therapy system for skandion kliniken in sweden, it would negatively impact our orders in the fiscal period in which the order is cancelled and we would lose the opportunity for the product and services revenues that the order represents. in addition, many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require a long lead time, which may require an increase in our levels of inventory. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of 45 table of contents our varian particle therapy business that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. moreover, entrance into the proton therapy business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project, as well as in some situations participate in or provide project financing for the project. if we must establish special purpose entities to finance and manage a proton therapy project, we may be required to consolidate these special purpose entities in our financial statements. since the cost of each proton therapy center project will generally exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss may be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted and we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. this and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a revolving credit facility that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the fasb, american institute of certified public accountants, the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of 46 table of contents accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including that regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. additionally, we recognize revenues for some of our proton therapy products and services and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our sip business under the percentage-of-completion method or the completed-contract method, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply these methods to other businesses in the future. the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method and completed contract method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and reasonably predictable, and others not recurring or easily predicted. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs, of products at the end of a product useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted a directive that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires material disclosure information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. as a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may offer extended payment terms, which may potentially result in higher dso and greater payment defaults we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in some circumstances. many of the areas where we offer such longer or extended payment terms have under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. as of october 1, 2010, customer contracts with extended payment terms of more than one year amounted to less than 1% of our accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial 47 table of contents positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, which would affect our net earnings. also, longer or extended payment terms have and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. disruption of critical information systems could harm our business and financial condition information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes in the past. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, flood, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers damaged manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. in addition, our facilities, particularly those located in the western states of the united states, may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as the swine flu, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on the credit facility described below. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. 77 table of contents we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries functional currency. the foreign currency sales transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to twelve months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased forward exchange contracts outstanding at october 1, 2010 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 19.7 $ 1.0349 british pound 3.3 9.9 0.6319 canadian dollar 1.5 1.0236 danish krone 0.6 2.7 5.4170 euro 131.5 3.0 0.7273 indian rupee 2.4 44.9400 japanese yen 79.0 83.7236 new zealand dollar 2.2 1.3477 norwegian kron 0.7 5.8435 swedish krona 2.6 6.7170 swiss franc 50.0 0.9758 totals $ 239.4 $ 69.7 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and short-term borrowings. our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents as of october 1, 2010. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at october 1, 2010 totaled $520 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.23%. the amended bofa credit facility (including the japanese line of credit) allows us to borrow up to a maximum amount of $225 million. we collateralized a portion of the amended bofa credit facility with a pledge of 65% of the voting shares that we hold in varian medical systems nederland b.v., a wholly-owned subsidiary. borrowings under the amended bofa credit facility (outside of the japanese line of credit) accrue interest based on the libor, the federal funds rate, or the bofa prime rate plus a margin. borrowings under the japanese line of credit accrue interest at the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin. 78 table of contents we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under the amended bofa credit facility (including the japanese line of credit). as of october 1, 2010, the amount outstanding under the amended bofa credit facility was $20 million, none of which was outstanding under the japanese line of credit, with interest being accrued on libor plus a margin. if the amount outstanding under the amended bofa credit facility remained at this level for an entire year and the libor increased or decreased, respectively, by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $200,000. see a detailed discussion of the amended bofa credit facility in item 7, md&amp;a- liquidity and capital resources. in addition, we had $23.4 million of long-term debt (including the current maturities of long term debt) outstanding at october 1, 2010 that carried at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.9% with principal payments due in various installments over a four-year period. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate of our investment portfolio, short-term borrowings or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and long term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 520.2 $ $ $ $ $ $ 520.2 average interest rate(1) 0.23 % 0.23 % liabilities: long-term debt $ 5.5 $ 11.6 $ $ 6.3 $ $ $ 23.4 average interest rate 6.80 % 7.03 % 6.70 % 6.89 % short-term borrowing under credit facilities $ 20.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 20.0 average interest rate(1) 1.51 % 1.51 % (1) represents interest rates effective as of october 1, 2010. the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents and the estimated fair value of our short-term borrowings under the credit facility approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the fair value of our long-term debt was estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. under this method, the fair value of our debt was estimated to be $25.4 million at october 1, 2010. we determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. however, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. accordingly, the fair value estimate presented herein is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instruments could realize in a current market exchange. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 25 item 1b unresolved staff comments 51 item 2. properties 51 item 3. legal proceedings 51 item 4. removed and reserved 51 part ii item 5. market for the registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 52 item 6. selected financial data 55 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 56 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 84 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 142 item 9a. controls and procedures 142 item 9b other information 142 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 143 item 11. executive compensation 143 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 143 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 144 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 144 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 145 signatures 150 table of contents forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k (this annual report ), including the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ( md&amp;a ), contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, which provides a safe harbor for statements about future events, products and future financial performance that are based on the beliefs of, estimates made by and information currently available to the management of varian medical systems, inc. ( we, our or the company ). the outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results and the outcome or timing of certain events may differ significantly from those projected in these forward-looking statements due to the factors listed under risk factors, and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). for this purpose, statements concerning industry or market segment outlook; market acceptance of or transition to new products or technology such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, volumetric modulated arc therapy, brachytherapy, software, treatment techniques, proton therapy and advanced x-ray products; growth drivers; future orders, revenues, backlog, earnings or other financial results; and any statements using the terms believe, expect, expectation, anticipate, can, should, would, could, estimate, appear, based on, may, intended, potential, and possible or similar statements are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and the outcome and timing of certain events to differ materially from those projected or management current expectations. by making forward-looking statements, we have not assumed any obligation to, and you should not expect us to, update or revise those statements because of new information, future events or otherwise. part i item 1. business general we, varian medical systems, inc., are a delaware corporation and were originally incorporated in 1948 as varian associates, inc. in 1999, we transferred our instruments business to varian, inc. ( vi ), a wholly owned subsidiary, and transferred our semiconductor equipment business to varian semiconductor equipment associates, inc. ( vsea ), a wholly owned subsidiary. we retained the medical systems business, principally the sales and service of oncology products and the sales of x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems. on april 2, 1999, we spun off vi and vsea, which resulted in a non-cash dividend to our stockholders and which we refer to as the spin-offs in this annual report on form 10-k. immediately after the spin-offs, we changed our name to varian medical systems, inc. we have been involved in the medical systems business since 1959. an amended and restated distribution agreement dated as of january 14, 1999 and other associated agreements govern our ongoing relationships with vi and vsea. in may 2010, vi became a wholly owned subsidiary of agilent technologies, inc. in november 2011, vsea became a wholly owned subsidiary of applied materials, inc. overview we are the world leader in the design, manufacture, sale and service of equipment and software products for treating cancer with radiotherapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic body radiotherapy ( sbrt ), stereotactic radiosurgery ( srs ) and brachytherapy. we also design, manufacture, sell and service x-ray tubes for original equipment manufacturers ( oems ); replacement x-ray tubes; and flat panel digital image detectors for filmless x-ray imaging (commonly referred to as flat panel detectors or digital image detectors ) in medical, dental, veterinary, scientific and industrial applications. we design, manufacture, sell and service linear accelerators, digital image detectors, image processing 1 table of contents software and image detection products for security and inspection purposes. we also develop, design, manufacture, sell and service proton therapy products and systems for cancer treatment. our mission is to explore and develop radiation technology that helps to protect and save lives and prevent harm. we seek to be a partner for life and to help save an additional 100,000 lives per year with our technology, products and services. to meet this challenge, we offer tools for fighting cancer, taking x-ray images and protecting ports and borders. oncology systems designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer. our products include linear accelerators, brachytherapy afterloaders, treatment simulation and verification equipment and accessories; as well as information management, treatment planning and image processing software. our products enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy treatments and offer advanced treatments such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy ( imrt ), image-guided radiation therapy ( igrt ), volumetric modulated arc therapy, and stereotactic radiotherapy, as well as to treat patients using brachytherapy techniques, which involve temporarily implanting radioactive sources. our products are also used by surgeons and radiation oncologists to perform radiosurgery. our customers worldwide include university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, doctors offices and cancer care clinics. our truebeam system and our service contract business were significant contributors to growth in oncology systems net orders and revenues in fiscal year 2011 over fiscal year 2010. in fiscal year 2011, we acquired a privately-held supplier of devices for delivery of brachytherapy treatment and invested in a minority equity interest in augmenix, inc. ( augmenix ), a privately-held company that is developing hydrogel products to decrease irradiation of radiation sensitive tissue such as the rectum through creating greater spatial separation between the sensitive tissue ( e.g., rectum) and the treated area ( e.g., prostate) during treatments. in october 2011, we acquired calypso medical technologies, inc. ( calypso ), a privately-held supplier of specialized products and software for real-time tumor tracking and motion management during radiosurgery and radiotherapy. x-ray products designs, manufactures and sells x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors for use in a range of applications, including radiographic or fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures and industrial applications; and x-ray tubes for use in computed tomography ( ct ) scanning. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are sold to large imaging system oem customers that incorporate them into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary, and industrial imaging systems. for replacement purposes, our x-ray tubes and our flat panel detectors are sold to small oems, independent service companies and directly to end-users. we have two other businesses and our ginzton technology center ( gtc ) that we report together under the other category. our security and inspection products ( sip ) business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron &reg; x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products (including intellx tm ) for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination in a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems. our varian particle therapy ( vpt ) business develops, designs, manufactures, sells and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiation therapy using proton beams, for the treatment of cancer. our current focus is commercializing our proton therapy system and bringing our expertise in traditional radiation therapy to proton therapy to improve its clinical utility and to reduce its cost of treatment per patient. in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we booked an $88 million order from california proton treatment center, llc ( cptc ) to provide our probeam proton therapy system for the five-room scripps proton therapy center being developed in san diego, california. we also have a 10-year operations and maintenance agreement valued at approximately $60 million to service the probeam 2 table of contents system once the scripps proton therapy center opens, which is scheduled for 2013. in addition, we are participating with orix capital markets, llc ( orix ) in a $165 million loan facility to finance the completion and startup operations of scripps proton therapy center. we are providing $115 million of the loan commitment and orix is providing a $50 million of the loan commitment. see note 16, variable interest entity of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. the gtc develops technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including technology to improve radiation therapy and x-ray imaging, as well as other technology for a variety of applications, including security and cargo screening. the gtc is also actively engaged in searching for chemical or biological agents that work synergistically with radiation to improve treatment outcomes. our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the factors described in risk factors in conjunction with the description of our business set forth below and the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. radiation therapy and the cancer-care market radiotherapy is the use of certain types of focused energy to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors, with the goal of damaging as many cancer cells as possible, while limiting harm to nearby healthy tissue. radiotherapy is commonly used either alone or in combination with surgery or chemotherapy. one important advantage is that radiation has its greatest effect on replicating cells. when radiation interacts with a cell the therapeutic effect is primarily mediated by damaging cellular genetic material (chromosomes), which interrupts cell replication and results in eventual cellular death. since the need for replication is particularly critical to the survival of a cancer and since normal tissues are better able to repair such damage, radiation tends to disproportionately kill cancer cells. the clinical goal in radiation oncology is to deliver as high of a radiation dose as possible directly to the tumor to kill the cancerous cells while minimizing radiation exposure to healthy tissue surrounding the tumor so that complications, side effects and secondary effects can be limited. that has been the driving force in the clinical care advancements in radiation oncology over the past two decades, from conventional radiotherapy to advanced forms of treatment such as imrt, igrt, srs, sbrt and proton therapy, and it has certainly been one of the driving forces in our own product development plans. the process for delivering radiotherapy typically consists of examining the patient, planning the treatment, simulating and verifying the treatment plan, providing quality assurance for the equipment and software, delivering the treatment, verifying that the treatment was delivered correctly and recording the history and results of the treatment. the team responsible for delivering the radiotherapy treatment generally comprises a physician specializing in radiation oncology, a physicist for planning the treatment and a radiation therapist for operating the machines. the most common form of radiotherapy involves delivering x-ray beams from outside of the patient body, a process sometimes referred to as external beam radiotherapy. a device called a linear accelerator generates the x-ray beams and administers the treatment by rotating around a patient lying on a treatment couch and delivering the x-ray beam to the tumor from different angles in order to concentrate radiation at the tumor while at the same time minimizing the dose delivered to the surrounding healthy tissue. conventional radiotherapy typically involves multiple, or fractionated, treatments of a tumor in up to 50 radiation sessions. the linear accelerator may also deliver electron beams for the treatment of diseases closer to the body surface. imrt is an advanced form of external beam radiotherapy in which the shape, intensity and angle of the radiation beams from a linear accelerator are varied, or modulated, across the target area. this form of radiotherapy conforms the radiation beams more closely to the shape of the tumor and allows physicians to deliver higher doses of radiation than conventional radiation, while more effectively limiting the amount of radiation delivered to nearby healthy tissue. in this way, clinicians can design and administer 3 table of contents an individualized treatment plan for each patient, targeting the tumor as closely as a few millimeters. imrt can be used to treat head and neck, breast, prostate, pancreatic, lung, liver, gynecological and central nervous system cancers. imrt has become a well-accepted standard of treatment for cancer; and additional treatment centers, from university hospitals to local community clinics, adopt imrt for their treatments every year. we are a leading global provider of products that enable imrt for the treatment of cancer. igrt is another advanced form of external beam radiotherapy complementing imrt to enhance treatments. while imrt helps physicians shape the beam to the tumor, igrt goes further in allowing physicians to accommodate for a tumor moving or shrinking. this allows the delivery of even higher doses of radiation to tumors with the goal of sparing even more of the surrounding healthy tissue. igrt technologies compensate for daily changes and movements in tumors and enable dynamic, real-time visualization and precise treatment of small, moving and changing tumors with greater intensity and accuracy. with the greater precision offered by igrt, clinics and hospitals are potentially able to improve outcomes by concentrating even still higher doses of radiation at the tumors. we believe igrt has become an accepted standard for treatment in the radiation oncology market. srs and sbrt, often collectively referred to as radiosurgery, are advanced ablative radiation treatment procedures performed in a small number of treatment sessions with high doses of ionizing radiation. radiosurgery is typically delivered with many small beams of radiation from many positions about the body, incorporating precise stereotactic image-guidance, which maximizes dose to the target and minimizes dose to surrounding normal tissues. radiation oncologists, surgeons and other oncology specialists are increasingly recognizing radiosurgery as a useful tool to eradicate cancerous and non-cancerous lesions anywhere in the body. volumetric modulated arc therapy is a significant further advancement in imrt that allows physicians to control three parameters simultaneously: (i) the rate at which the linear accelerator gantry rotates around the patient, (ii) the beam-shaping aperture and (iii) the rate at which the radiation dose is delivered to the patient. this creates a finely-shaped imrt dose distribution that more closely matches the size and shape of the tumor. volumetric modulated arc therapy enables faster treatments and greater precision. our rapidarc tm radiotherapy products plan and deliver volumetric modulated arc therapy treatments. physicians, hospitals and clinics place additional value on radiotherapy equipment and treatments, such as volumetric modulated arc therapy, that enable shorter treatment times and greater patient throughput. from the patient standpoint, shorter treatment times means that the patient is immobilized on the treatment couch for a shorter time period. shorter treatment sessions decrease waiting times and, since treatments are delivered in fractions over the course of many days, can mean fewer disruptions to a patient daily routine. from the physicians and hospitals standpoint, shorter treatment times can lessen the chance of tumors moving during treatment and can increase patient throughput. shorter treatment times and increased patient throughput can increase the number of treatments per day (which is a particular concern in countries with lower numbers of treatment machines per capita), and, as a result, can decrease the cost per treatment which in turn can mean greater access to advanced care to more patients. an alternative to external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy involves the insertion of radioactive seeds, wires or ribbons directly into a tumor or into a body cavity close to the cancerous area. these techniques, unlike external beam radiation therapy, tend to result in much less irradiation of the surrounding healthy tissue so that physicians can prescribe a higher total dose of radiation typically over a shorter period of time. brachytherapy is often used for cancers of the head and neck, breast, uterus, cervix, soft tissue and prostate. proton therapy is another form of external beam radiotherapy that uses proton particles in the form of a beam generated with a cyclotron rather than x-ray beams from a linear accelerator. a proton beam 4 table of contents signature energy distribution curve, also known as the bragg peak, allows for greater accuracy in targeting tumor cells with an even lower dose to nearby healthy tissue than may be delivered with x-ray beams from a linear accelerator. this makes proton therapy a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly tumors near critical structures such as the optic nerve and cancers in children. pencil-beam scanning capability allows for greater sparing of healthy tissue compared to external beam radiotherapy treatments. although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to the high capital cost and the market is still developing. we have entered the proton therapy market because we believe we can apply our experience in traditional radiotherapy to proton therapy, reducing the cost of treatment per patient for existing clinical applications and expanding the use of proton therapy into a broader array of cancer types. we believe that proton therapy will over time become a more widely accepted method of treatment. the radiation oncology market is growing globally due to a number of factors. the number of new cancer cases diagnosed annually is projected to increase by more than 65 percent from 12.7 million new cases in 2008 to more than 21.3 million in 2030, according to the international agency for research on cancer (the iarc ) in the world health organization. the iarc world cancer report predicts that the increase in new cases will mainly be due to steadily aging populations in both developed and developing countries. technological advancements have helped to improve the precision and applicability of radiotherapy and radiosurgery, potentially expanding the use of radiotherapy and radiosurgery equipment to treat a broader range of cases. technological advances in hardware and software are also creating a market for replacing an aging installed base of machines that are unable to match new, higher standards of care. the rise in cancer cases, together with the increase in sophistication of new treatment processes, have created demand for more automated products that can be integrated into clinically practical systems to make treatments more rapid and cost effective. technology advances leading to improvements in patient care, the availability of more advanced, automated and efficient clinical tools in radiation therapy, the advent of more precise forms of radiotherapy treatment (such as imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, srs, sbrt, brachytherapy and proton therapy), and developing technology and equipment that enable treatments (such as volumetric modulated arc therapy) that reduce treatment times and increase patient throughput should drive the demand for our radiation therapy products and services. international markets in particular are under-equipped to address the growing cancer incidence. patients in many foreign countries must frequently endure long waits for radiotherapy. several nations with growing economies, including china, india, and brazil, are beginning to invest in expanding their radiation oncology capability to address the needs of their growing and aging populations. as an example, china, india and brazil are estimated to have less than one linear accelerator per million people in their population. by comparison, the united states has an estimated 13 linear accelerators per million people in its population. this capacity shortfall, coupled with ever increasing incidences of cancer, represent additional drivers for our continued growth in international markets. as a u.s.-based company, the competitiveness of our product pricing is influenced by the fluctuation of the u.s. dollar against other currencies. a weaker u.s. dollar against foreign currencies would make our product pricing more competitive in the local currencies of our international customers. a weaker u.s dollar against foreign currencies would also benefit our international revenues and net orders when measured in u.s. dollars. since fiscal year 2009, all of our businesses have been operating in a very tough environment marked by the credit crisis and economic downturn in the united states and the sovereign debt crisis in europe, both regions being significant markets for our businesses. in oncology systems, the economic downturn shrunk customer capital equipment budgets, slowed decision making and made financing more expensive and time consuming. our x-ray products business saw weak net orders and revenues as a result of customer inventory reduction efforts. we saw governments postpone purchasing decisions and delay deployments of products for security and inspection systems. we have seen the very 5 table of contents tight credit markets constrain the ability of proton projects to get financing. while we believe we have been successfully navigating within this tough environment and economic activity has shown some improvement in the united states, recovery has been sluggish and we cannot predict the strength or sustainability of an economic recovery, in general or specifically in the healthcare industry. in addition, issues related to sovereign debt in europe have significantly disturbed the global financial markets. certain european governments have taken or are planning to take austerity measures in order to meet their debt obligations and to avoid intensifying the sovereign debt crisis. the ongoing concerns about the u.s. and euro zone economies and the sovereign debt crisis in europe have weakened and may continued to weaken global demand, thus slowing down economic activities in faster growing export-centric countries, such as china. the worldwide economic instability may continue to affect our business and demand for our products in fiscal year 2012. products oncology systems our oncology systems business segment is the leading provider of advanced hardware and software products for treatment of cancer with conventional radiation therapy, imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, srs, sbrt and brachytherapy. oncology systems products address each major aspect of the radiotherapy process, including linear accelerators and accessory products for positioning the patient and delivering the x-ray beam; brachytherapy afterloaders for delivering the radioactive implantable seeds; treatment planning software for planning treatment sessions and dose delivery; treatment simulation and verification equipment and accessories and quality assurance software for simulating and verifying the treatment plans before treatment and verifying that a treatment was delivered correctly afterwards; and information management software for recording the history and results of treatments and other patient treatment information and data, including patient x-ray images. the focus of our oncology systems business is addressing the key concerns of the market for advanced cancer care systems; improving efficiency, precision, cost-effectiveness and ease of delivery of these treatments; and providing greater access to advanced treatments. a core element of our business strategy is to provide our customers with highly versatile, clinically proven products that are interoperable and can be configured and integrated into automated systems that combine greater precision, shorter treatment times and greater cost effectiveness and that improve the entire process of treating a patient. our products and accessories for imrt and igrt allow clinicians to track and treat tumors using very precisely shaped beams, targeting the tumor as closely as currently possible and allowing the delivery of higher doses to the tumor while limiting exposure of nearby healthy tissue. additionally, the precision and versatility of our products and technology makes it possible to use radiotherapy to treat metastatic cancers. with our treatment planning, verification and information management software products, a patient treatment plans, treatment data and images are recorded and stored in a single database shared by each of our products, which enables better communication among products. our products also allow multiple medical specialties radiation oncology, neurosurgery, radiographic imaging and medical oncology to share equipment, resources and information in a more cost-effective manner. furthermore, the ability of our products and technology to interoperate with each other and to interconnect into automated systems allows physicians to schedule and treat more patients within a set time period, which adds to the cost-effectiveness of our equipment. linear accelerators are the core device for delivering conventional external beam radiotherapy imrt, igrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy treatments, and we produce versions of these devices to suit various requirements. our clinac &reg; medical linear accelerators are used to treat cancer by producing therapeutic electrons and x-ray beams that target tumors and other abnormalities. the clinac ix linear accelerators are designed for more streamlined and advanced treatment processes including imrt and igrt. we also produce the trilogy linear accelerator, designed to be a versatile, cost-effective, ultra- 6 table of contents precise device with a faster dose delivery rate and smaller isocenter compared to the clinac ix. trilogy was developed with igrt and stereotactic radiotherapy in mind, but is also capable of delivering conventional, 3d conformal radiotherapy, imrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy. trilogy has the precision necessary to deliver radiosurgery for neurosurgical treatments and is the accelerator that is at the core of the novalis tx tm product offering, a combination of products from varian and brainlab ag ( brainlab ), targeted to neurosurgeons. the unique tm low-energy linear accelerator, which was developed to address more price sensitive markets in international regions, is capable of integrating our accessory products (including rapidarc) to deliver imrt, igrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy. in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we introduced the truebeam system for image-guided radiotherapy and radiosurgery. truebeam is a fully-integrated system designed from the ground up to treat a moving target with higher speed and accuracy and complements, at the high end, our accelerator product line portfolio. in april 2011, we received approval by the state food &amp; drug administration in china to market and sell our truebeam system in china. in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we received shonin approval from the japanese ministry of health, labor and welfare to market the truebeam system in japan. through september 30, 2011, we had received orders for 380 truebeam systems since its introduction, a majority of which came from north america. a minority of these orders represented upgrades from other linear accelerators already in our backlog. the truebeam system was a key contributor to oncology systems net order and revenue growth in fiscal year 2011 over fiscal year 2010. we also manufacture and market linear accelerator accessories that enhance efficiency and enable delivery of advanced treatments such as imrt, igrt, stereotactic radiotherapy, srs, sbrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy. our millennium series of multi-leaf collimators and high definition 120 ( hd 120 ) multi-leaf collimators are used with a linear accelerator to define the size, shape and intensity of the generated beams. portalvision , our electronic portal-imager, is used to verify a patient position while on the treatment couch, which is critical for accurate treatments and simplifies quality assurance of individual treatment plans. we also offer an innovative real-time patient position monitoring product, the rpm respiratory gating system, which allows the linear accelerator to be synchronized with patient breathing to help compensate for tumor motion during treatment. our igrt accessories include the on-board imager &reg; ( obi ) hardware accessory affixed to the linear accelerator that allows dynamic, real-time imaging of tumors while the patient is on the treatment couch and a cone-beam computerized tomography ( cbct ) imaging software accessory that works with the obi to allow patient positioning based on soft-tissue anatomy. using sophisticated image analysis tools, the cbct scan can be compared with a reference ct scan taken previously to determine how the treatment couch should be adjusted to fine-tune and verify the patient treatment setup and positioning prior to delivery of the radiation. therefore, to deliver the most advanced forms of igrt, our accelerators would typically have an obi, cbct, portalvision and other igrt-related hardware and software as accessories. our rapidarc radiotherapy products enable the planning and delivery of image-guided imrt in a single continuous rotation of up to 360 degrees rather than as a series of fixed fields. our rapidarc products enable faster delivery of radiation treatment with the possibility of reduced opportunity for tumor movement during treatment and greater patient throughput and lower cost per patient for the hospital or clinic. rapidarc radiotherapy products are a proprietary implementation of volumetric modulated arc therapy that coordinates beam shaping, dose rate and gantry speed to deliver a highly conformal dose distribution to the target tumor. we believe rapidarc represents a significant advancement in imrt cancer treatment. in october 2011, we acquired calypso, a privately-held supplier of specialized products and software for real-time tumor tracking and motion management during radiosurgery and radiotherapy, for $10 million plus potential contingent consideration upon achievement of certain milestones. this acquisition enables us to offer real-time, non-ionizing tumor tracking tools for enhancing the precision of cancer treatments. 7 table of contents our treatment planning and information management software products enhance and enable the delivery of advanced radiotherapy treatments, from the initial treatment planning and plan quality assurance verification to the post-treatment recording of data and storing of patient information. prior to any treatment, physicians must plan the course of radiation delivery for the patient. we offer a range of treatment planning products that assist physicians in compiling this plan. our eclipse treatment planning system provides physicians with 3d image viewing, treatment simulation, radiation dosage calculation and verification and other tools for generating treatment delivery plans for the patient. the eclipse software utilizes a sophisticated technique known as inverse planning to enable physicians to rapidly develop optimal treatment plans based on a desired radiation dose outcome to the tumor and surrounding tissue. our argus software manages the planning, recording and analysis of quality assurance data for linear accelerators. finally, our aria oncology information management system ( aria ) is a comprehensive real-time information management system and database that records and verifies radiotherapy treatments carried out on the linear accelerator, records and stores patient data relating to chemotherapy treatment which may be prescribed by a physician in addition to radiotherapy, performs patient charting and manages patient information and patient image data. this gives clinics and hospitals the ability to manage treatment and patient information across radiation oncology and medical oncology procedures. also, because aria is an electronic medical record, it can enable users to operate filmless and paperless oncology departments and cancer clinics. our treatment simulators enable physicians to simulate radiation therapy treatments prior to delivery. we manufacture and sell acuity , a simulator that uses advanced amorphous silicon imaging technology and which has been designed to enhance imrt treatments by integrating simulation more closely with treatment planning and by helping physicians better address tumor motion caused by breathing. in addition to offering our own suite of equipment and software products for planning and delivering radiotherapy treatments, we have partnered with selected leaders in certain segments of the radiation therapy and radiosurgery market. with general electric medical systems ( ge ) in north america, we have established the see and treat cancer care program for radiation therapy that allows us to offer a suite of diagnostic and cancer treatment tools combining our comprehensive set of radiation therapy products with ge advanced diagnostic imaging systems. we have also established a strategic relationship with brainlab to market and sell to neurosurgeons a radiosurgical suite of brainlab products with our trilogy tx linear accelerator or our truebeam stx. we have a 2.5% equity ownership in brainlab. we also hold a minority equity interest in and an exclusive option to purchase the remaining equity interest of augmenix. our brachytherapy operations design, manufacture, sell and service advanced brachytherapy products, including varisource hdr afterloaders and gammamed hdr/pdr afterloaders, brachyvision brachytherapy treatment planning system, applicators and accessories. brachytherapy also develops and markets the variseed ldr prostate treatment planning system and the vitesse software for hdr prostate treatment planning. in march 2011, we acquired a privately-held supplier of devices for delivery of brachytherapy treatment of cancer for approximately $8 million. this acquisition enabled oncology systems to expand its product offerings for brachytherapy treatment of cancer. revenues from our oncology systems business segment represented 78%, 79% and 81% of total revenues for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. our oncology systems business segment revenues also include service revenues. see customer services and support. for a discussion of oncology systems business segment financial information, see note 17, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 8 table of contents x-ray products our x-ray products business segment is a world leader in designing and manufacturing x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors, which are key components of x-ray imaging systems. we sell our products to oems for both new system configurations and as replacement components for installed systems. we conduct an active research and development program to focus on new technology and applications in both the medical and industrial x-ray imaging markets. we manufacture x-ray tubes for four primary medical diagnostic radiology applications: ct scanners, radiographic or fluoroscopic imaging, special procedures and mammography. we also offer a large line of industrial x-ray tubes, which consist of analytical x-ray tubes used for x-ray fluorescence and diffraction, as well as tubes used for non-destructive imaging and gauging and airport baggage inspection systems. our flat panel detectors, which are based on amorphous silicon imaging technologies, have found broad application as an alternative to image intensifier tubes and x-ray film. these flat panel detectors are being incorporated into next generation filmless medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial inspection imaging systems and also serve as a key component of our obi, which helps enable igrt. we believe that imaging equipment based on amorphous silicon technologies is more stable and reliable, needs fewer adjustments and suffers less degradation over time than image intensifier tubes and is more cost effective than x-ray film. our product offering of flat panel detectors also includes a family of radiographic panels, which may be used on digital radiography systems or may be used to convert film-based systems to digital systems. revenues from x-ray products represented 18%, 17% and 15% of total revenues in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. for a discussion of the x-ray products business segment financial information, see note 17, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. other our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination in a variety of applications. the linatron m-i is a dual energy accelerator that can perform non-intrusive inspection of cargo containers and aid in automatically detecting and alerting operators when high-density nuclear materials associated with dirty bombs or weapons of mass destruction are present during cargo screening. the linatron k-15 is a high-energy accelerator for inspection of very large, dense objects, including, for example, manufactured segments used in the ariane rocket program in europe. intellx is an imaging product for cargo screening. generally, we sell our sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies who use them in overseas ports and borders to screen for contraband, weapons, stowaways, narcotics and explosives, as well as for manifest verification. we also sell our sip products to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries for nondestructive product examination purposes, such as industrial inspection and manufacturing quality control. our vpt business develops, designs, manufactures, sells and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiotherapy using proton beams, for the treatment of cancer. our probeam system is capable of delivering precise intensity modulated proton therapy ( impt ) using pencil beam scanning technology. proton therapy is a preferred option for treating certain cancers, particularly tumors near critical structures such as the optic nerve and cancers in children. although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to high capital cost. 9 table of contents proton therapy facilities are large-scale construction projects that are time consuming; involve significant customer investment and often complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to general economic and market conditions. customer decision-making cycles tend to be very long, and orders generally involve many contingencies. as with our sip business, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties. we are investing substantial resources to build this new business. we currently have one proton therapy system in operation at a customer facility in munich, germany and, as of the end of fiscal year 2011, four treatment gantries at the facility were treating patients. this equipment was partially installed, and not yet commissioned, at the time of the acquisition of accel instruments gmbh ( accel, which has since changed its name to varian medical systems particle therapy gmbh). we have conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;enne ( ce ) mark to market our proton therapy systems within the european economic area ( eea ) and, as of january 2011, we received 510(k) clearance in the united states for our proton therapy system. gtc, our scientific research facility, continues to invest in developing technologies that enhance our current businesses or may lead to new business areas, including next generation digital x-ray imaging technology, volumetric and functional imaging, and improved x-ray sources and technology for security and cargo screening applications. in addition, gtc is developing technologies and products that are designed to improve disease management by more precise targeting of radiation, as well as by employing targeted energy and molecular agents to enhance the effectiveness and broaden the application of radiation therapy. sip, vpt and gtc report their results from operations as part of the other category. combined revenues from these operations represented 4% of total revenues in each of fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. for a discussion of segment financial information, see note 17, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. customer services and support we maintain service centers in milpitas, california; las vegas, nevada; marietta, georgia; buc, france; crawley, united kingdom; zug, switzerland; herlev (copenhagen), denmark; diegem (brussels), belgium; darmstadt, germany; houten, the netherlands; alcobendas (madrid), spain; cernusco (milan), italy; manama, bahrain; moscow, russia; mumbai, delhi, and chennai, india; tokyo, osaka, sendai, nagoya, and fukuoka, japan; beijing, chengdu, shanghai and hong kong, china; kuala lumpur, malaysia; singapore; bangkok, thailand; belrose, australia; and sao paulo, brazil; as well as field service personnel throughout the world for oncology systems customer support services. key oncology systems education operations are located in las vegas, nevada, beijing, china, mumbai, india, and zug, switzerland. our network of service engineers and customer support specialists provide installation, warranty, repair, training and support services, and professional services. we also have a distributed service parts network of regional hubs and forward-stocking locations across all major geographies. we generate service revenues by providing services to customers on a time-and-materials basis and through post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts. most of the field service engineers are our employees, but our products are serviced by employees of dealers and/or agents in a few foreign countries. customers can access our extensive service network by calling any of our service centers. we warrant most of our oncology systems products for parts and labor for 12 months, and we offer a variety of post-warranty equipment service contracts and software support contracts to suit customers requirements. we believe customer service and support are an integral part of our oncology systems competitive strategy. growth in our service revenues has resulted from the increasing customer adoption of service contracts as the sophistication and installed base of our products increase. we also believe superior service plays an important role in marketing and selling medical products and systems, particularly as the 10 table of contents products become more complex. nevertheless, some of our customers use their own internal service organizations and/or independent service organizations to service equipment after the warranty period expires and therefore do not enter into agreements with us for extended service. we generally warrant our x-ray tubes and flat panel detector products in our x-ray products business segment for 12 to 24 months, although for some x-ray tubes the warranty period is based on the number of times the product is used. we provide technical advice and consultation for x-ray tubes and imaging subsystems products to major oem customers from our offices in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; tokyo, japan; beijing, china and willich, germany. our applications specialists and engineers make recommendations to meet the customer technical requirements within the customer budgetary constraints. we often develop specifications for a unique product, which will be designed and manufactured to meet a specific customer requirements. we also maintain a technical customer support group in charleston, south carolina to meet the technical support requirements of independent service companies that use our x-ray tube and flat panel detector products. we generally warrant our sip products for 12 months. we provide technical support and service for these products to major oem customers from our offices in las vegas, nevada; lincolnshire, illinois; and buc, france; manama, kingdom of bahrain; crawley, united kingdom; milano, italy; and brussels, belgium. we use the oncology systems customer support services organization in asia, australia and south america. in the vpt business, we sell our proton therapy equipment generally with a 12-month warranty. we also generate service revenues by providing on-site proton therapy system technical operation and maintenance support services for relatively long-term periods ( i.e., a 5-year term or longer). we believe customer service and support are an integral part of our vpt competitive strategy. marketing and sales we employ a combination of direct sales forces and independent distributors or resellers in north america, europe, australia and major parts of asia and latin america for the marketing and sales of our products worldwide. in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we did not have a single customer that represented 10% or more of our total revenues. for our oncology systems segment, we sell direct in north america and use a combination of direct sales and independent distributors in international regions. we also have direct-to-consumer advertising campaigns to increase consumer awareness of oncology systems products. we sell our oncology systems products primarily to university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, physicians offices and cancer care clinics worldwide. these hospitals, institutes, agencies, physicians offices and clinics replace equipment and upgrade treatment capability as technology evolves. sales cycles for our external beam radiotherapy products typically can be quite lengthy since many of them are considered capital equipment and are affected by budgeting cycles. our customers frequently fix capital budgets one or more years in advance. in recent years, we have seen the purchasing cycle lengthen as a result of the more complex decision-making process associated with larger dollar value transactions for more sophisticated igrt and surgical equipment, and other technical advances. during the recent economic downturn, we saw customers decision-making process further complicated and lengthened, especially in the united states, which caused hospitals, clinics and research institutions to more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending in light of tightened capital budgets, tougher credit requirements and the general constriction in credit availability. in addition, the recent economic downturn had caused customers to delay requested delivery dates. because our product revenues are influenced by the timing of product shipments, which are tied to customer-requested delivery dates, these delivery delays had increased the average order to revenue conversion cycle in the united states. historically, this conversion cycle has been longer when new products are introduced or 11 table of contents when we sell more products internationally. the lengthening of order to revenue conversion cycle could reduce our revenues and margins. in addition, our receivables may take longer to collect. continuing growth in demand for our oncology systems products depends in part on the strength and sustainability of an economic recovery in the united states and in the euro zone. even though economic activity has shown some improvement, recovery has been sluggish and we cannot predict the strength or sustainability of an economic recovery, in general or specifically in the healthcare industry. reimbursement rates in the united states have generally supported a favorable return on investment for the purchase of new radiotherapy equipment. while we believe that improved product functionality, greater cost-effectiveness and prospects for better clinical outcomes with new capabilities such as imrt, igrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy tend to drive demand for radiotherapy products, large changes in reimbursement rates or reimbursement structure can affect customer demand and cause market shifts. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states, such as in 2009 when there were proposed reductions in medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery at free-standing clinics. in addition, we do not know what impact the affordable health care for america act and similar state proposals will have on long-term growth or demand for our products and services in our oncology systems business. international reimbursement rates for radiation therapy tend to be low in national health systems, yet international markets continue to invest in better treatment capability, albeit often after it has been proven in the north american region or in other leading research centers worldwide. total oncology systems revenues, including service revenues, were $2.0 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.8 billion for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. we divide our market segments for oncology systems revenues into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 48%, 32%, 15% and 5%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2011; 46%, 33%, 17% and 4%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2010; and 54%, 29%, 14%, and 3%, respectively, of oncology systems revenues during fiscal year 2009. our x-ray products segment employs a combination of direct sales and independent distributors for sales in all of its regions and sells a high proportion of our x-ray tube products and flat panel products to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their imaging systems. the long-term fundamental growth driver of this business segment is the on-going success of our key oem customers, and we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of x-ray products revenues in the foreseeable future. our oem customers include toshiba corporation, carestream health, inc., hitachi medical corporation, ge healthcare, planmeca oy, imaging sciences international, inc., agfa healthcare nv, and sound technologies, inc. these oem customers represented 64%, 62% and 61% of our total x-ray products segment revenues during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, with the remaining revenues coming from a large number of small oems and independent services companies. changes in access to diagnostic radiology or the reimbursement rates associated with diagnostic radiology as a result of the affordable health care for america act and similar state proposals will likely affect demand for our products in our x-ray products business. total revenues for our x-ray products segment were $469 million, $403 million and $331 million for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. we divide our market segments for x-ray products revenues by region into north america, europe, asia and rest of the world, and these regions constituted 29%, 21%, 49% and 1%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2011; 32%, 17%, 50% and 1%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2010; and 33%, 15%, 49% and 3%, respectively, of x-ray products revenues during fiscal year 2009. our sip business also uses a combination of direct sales and independent distributors and sells a high proportion of its products to a limited number of oems that incorporate our products into their systems. as with x-ray products, this business depends on the success of our oem customers, and we expect that revenues from relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of sip 12 table of contents revenues in the foreseeable future. we supply linatron linear accelerators and detector products to oems such as smiths detection, rapiscan systems, inc. and american science &amp; engineering, inc. we also sell our sip products to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. use of our sip technology in security cargo screening and border protection is still in its early stages, but we believe demand for our sip products will be driven primarily by cargo screening and border protection needs. this business is heavily influenced by governmental policies on homeland security, political change and government budgets. orders and revenues for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or with our oem customers over a short period of time and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have previously encountered with a large government project, which can make the certainty of some sip orders unpredictable. in the vpt business, we use direct sales specialist representatives who collaborate globally with our oncology systems sales group on projects. potential customers are government-sponsored hospitals and research institutions and research universities, which typically purchase products through public tenders, and, to a lesser extent, private hospitals, clinics and private developers. while this market is still developing, we believe that growth in this business will initially develop in the major metropolitan areas in the united states and abroad, driven by institutions that wish to expand their clinical offerings and increase their profile in their respective communities. competition rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software products, including our oncology systems products. we compete with companies worldwide. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. our smaller competitors could be acquired by companies with greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. some of our suppliers or distributors could also be acquired by competitors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues. furthermore, we believe that new competitors will enter our markets, as we have encountered new competitors as we enter new markets such as radiosurgery, volumetric modulated arc therapy and proton therapy. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) greater interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) enhancing the ease of use of our software products and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput. we have emphasized maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our various individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation therapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy and will stimulate demand for our products. we face competition though from closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to enable greater interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. our oncology systems customers equipment purchase considerations typically include: reliability, servicing, patient throughput, precision, price, payment terms, connectivity, clinical features, the ability to track patient referral, long-term relationship with customers and capabilities of customers existing equipment. we believe we compete favorably with our competitors based upon our strategy of providing 13 table of contents a complete package of products and services in the field of radiation oncology and our continued commitment to global distribution and customer service, value-added manufacturing, technological leadership and new product innovation. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost effective, high quality clinical outcomes, together in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. since our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. in addition, additional competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our net orders. we are the leading provider of medical linear accelerators and related accessories. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab, siemens medical solutions, accuray incorporated and tomotherapy incorporated (which was recently acquired by accuray incorporated). with our information and image management, simulation, treatment planning and radiosurgery products, we also compete with a variety of companies, such as elekta ab, philips medical systems, best theratronics, ltd., nucletron b.v. and siemens medical solutions. we also encounter some competition from providers of hospital information systems. with respect to our brachytherapy operations, our competitors are nucletron b.v. (which was recently acquired by elekta ab) and ibt bebig s.a. in our oncology systems the service and maintenance business, we compete with independent service organizations and our customers internal service organizations. in addition, as a radiotherapy and radiosurgery equipment provider, we also face competition from alternative cancer treatment methods, such as traditional surgery, chemotherapy, robotic surgery and drug therapies, among others. to compete successfully, we need to demonstrate and convince our customers of the advantages of radiation therapy over other cancer treatment alternatives. in x-ray imaging components and subsystems, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality or superior technology and/or performance. we sell a significant volume of our x-ray tubes to oems such as toshiba corporation, hitachi medical corporation, philips medical systems and ge healthcare, all of which have in-house x-ray tube production capability. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers such as comet ag and iae industria applicazioni elettroniche spa. these companies compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. we incorporate our flat panel detectors into our equipment for igrt within our oncology systems and also sell to a number of oems, which incorporate our flat panel detectors into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems. our amorphous silicon based flat panel detector technology competes with other detector technologies such as amorphous selenium, charge-coupled devices and variations of amorphous silicon scintillators. we believe that our product provides a competitive advantage due to lower product cost and better product quality and performance. for flat panel detectors, our significant customers include carestream health, inc. and toshiba corporation and we primarily compete against perkin-elmer, inc., trixell s.a.s., samsung electronics and canon, inc. in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states in the security and inspection market, and our major competitor is nuctech company limited. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fractured and there is no single major competitor in this nondestructive testing market. 14 table of contents the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of igrt technologies such as obi. in the proton therapy market, we compete principally with hitachi medical corporation, ion beam applications s.a., mevion medical systems, inc. (formerly still river systems, inc.) and sumitomo heavy industries, ltd. there are a number of smaller competitors that are also developing proton therapy products. research and development developing products, systems and services based on advanced technology is essential to our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. we maintain a research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. research and development expenses totaled $171 million, $157 million and $147 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. our research and development are conducted both within the relevant product groups of our businesses and through gtc. gtc maintains technical expertise in x-ray technology, accelerator technology, imaging physics and applications, algorithms and software, electronic design, materials science and biosciences to prove feasibility of new product concepts and to improve current products. present research topics include new imaging concepts, image-based radiotherapy treatment planning and delivery, real time accommodation of moving targets, functional imaging and combined modality therapy, manufacturing process improvements, improved x-ray tubes and large-area, high resolution digital x-ray sensor arrays for cone-beam ct and other applications. gtc is also pursuing the potential of combining advances in directed energy and imaging technology with the latest breakthroughs in biotechnology by employing targeted energy to enhance the effectiveness of biological and chemical therapeutic agents. in addition, gtc is investigating the use of x-ray and high energy accelerator, detector, and image processing technology for security applications. gtc accepts some sponsored research contracts from external agencies such as the u.s. government or private sources. within oncology systems, our development efforts focus on enhancing the reliability and performance of existing products and developing new products. this development is conducted primarily in the united states, switzerland, canada, england, finland, india and china. in addition, we support research and development programs at selected hospitals and clinics. current areas for development within oncology systems include linear accelerator systems and accessories for medical applications, information systems, radiation treatment planning software, image processing software, imaging devices, simulation, patient positioning and equipment diagnosis and maintenance tools. within x-ray products, development is conducted at our salt lake city, utah and palo alto, california facilities and is primarily focused on developing and improving x-ray imaging component and subsystem products. current x-ray tube development areas include improvements to tube life and tube stability and reduction of tube noise. we are also working on x-ray tube designs which will operate at higher power loadings and at higher ct rotational speed to enhance the performance of next generation ct scanners as well as x-ray tubes to enhance the performance of our flat panel detectors. research in flat panel imaging technology is aimed at developing new panel technologies for low cost radiographic imaging, flexible panel interfaces and cone beam ct. within vpt, our development efforts focus on integrating patient set-up, motion management and clinical workflow solutions originally developed in oncology systems. we expect that, in order to realize the full potential of the vpt business, we will need to invest substantial resources to properly develop proton therapy technology and build this new business. 15 table of contents manufacturing and supplies we manufacture our medical linear accelerators in palo alto, california and in beijing, china. our treatment simulator systems and some accelerator subsystems are manufactured in crawley, united kingdom and some of our other accessory products in baden, switzerland; helsinki, finland; toulouse, france and winnipeg, canada. we manufacture our high dose rate brachytherapy systems in crawley, united kingdom and haan, germany and our brachytherapy treatment planning products in charlottesville, virginia. calypso manufactures certain components of their tumor tracking and motion management products in seattle, washington. our sip linear accelerators and certain radiographic products are manufactured in las vegas, nevada. we manufacture components and sub-systems for our proton therapy products and systems in troisdorf, germany and we plan to develop additional manufacturing facilities as needed for this business. we manufacture our x-ray imaging component and subsystem and flat panel detector products in salt lake city, utah; charleston, south carolina; willich, germany; and beijing, china. these facilities employ state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques, and several have been honored by the press, governments and trade organizations for their commitment to quality improvement. these manufacturing facilities are certified by international standards organization ( iso ) under iso 9001 (for sip) or iso 13485 (for medical devices). manufacturing processes at our various facilities include machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly and final testing. we have invested in various automated and semi-automated equipment for the fabrication and machining of the parts and assemblies that we incorporate into our products. we may, from time to time, invest further in such equipment. our quality assurance program includes various quality control measures from inspection of raw material, purchased parts and assemblies through on-line inspection. we also receive subassemblies from third-party suppliers and integrate them into a finished system. we outsource the manufacturing of many major subassemblies and perform system design, assembly and testing in-house. we believe outsourcing enables us to reduce fixed costs and capital expenditures, while also providing us with the flexibility to increase production capacity. we purchase material and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or customized to our specifications. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high-dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators; transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. we require certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray tubes, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for the vpt business. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. backlog our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2011 was $2.5 billion, of which we expect to recognize approximately 50% to 55% as revenues in fiscal year 2012. our backlog at the end of fiscal year 2010 was $2.2 billion, of which $1.2 billion was recognized as revenues in fiscal year 2011. our oncology systems backlog represented 88% and 91% of the total backlog at the end of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. except for vpt orders, we only recognize orders when product shipment or construction of certain highly customized sip products is expected to occur within two years and only if any contingencies are deemed perfunctory. in addition, we do not recognize sip orders from governmental agencies with bid protest provisions until the expiration of the bid protest period. for our vpt business, we recognize orders when construction of the related proton therapy treatment center is reasonably expected to start within two years. also, we only recognize orders for vpt products with contingencies if we deem the contingencies perfunctory or if we publicly disclose the existence and nature of material contingencies. however, orders will not be recognized if there are major financing contingencies or 16 table of contents customer board approval contingencies pending. backlog also includes a small portion of service contracts when they become billable, as well as the amount of deferred revenue and revenue related to acceptance. we perform a semi-annual review to verify that orders in our backlog remain valid. this review identifies aged orders and confirms these orders with our internal sales organization or our customers. aged orders which are not expected to be converted to revenues during this backlog review are deemed dormant and are no longer included in the reported backlog. orders may be revised or canceled, either according to their terms or as customers needs change; consequently, it is difficult to predict with certainty the amount of backlog that will result in revenues. in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we adjusted orders down by $95 million, $124 million (which includes the cancellation of a $62 million proton therapy system order from skandion kliniken) and $71 million, respectively, of orders due to adjustments, revisions or cancellations. our reported net orders are net of all backlog adjustments. product and other liabilities our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body; other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo); the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery; the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body; and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products operate within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operate according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products, or their misuse or failure, as well as liability related to the loss or misuse of private patient data. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture is defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. government regulation u.s. regulations u.s. laws governing marketing a medical device. in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the food and drug administration ( fda ), nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ), and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. similar international regulations apply overseas. these regulations, which include the u.s. food, drug and cosmetic act (the fdc act ) and regulations promulgated by the fda, govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of medical devices, post-market surveillance and reporting of serious injuries 17 table of contents and death, repairs, replacements, recalls and other matters relating to medical devices, radiation emitting devices and devices utilizing radioactive by-product material. state regulations are extensive and vary from state to state. our oncology systems equipment and software, as well as proton therapy systems offered by our vpt business, constitute medical devices subject to these regulations. our x-ray tube products and flat panel detectors produced by x-ray products are also considered medical devices. future products in any of our business segments may constitute medical devices and be subject to regulation. these laws require that manufacturers adhere to certain standards designed to ensure that the medical devices are safe and effective. under the fdc act, each medical device manufacturer must comply with quality system regulations that are strictly enforced by the fda. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) pre market notification clearance or pre-market approval ( pma ) before the manufacturer can market and sell those products in the united states. the 510(k) clearance process is applicable when the device introduced into commercial distribution is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device or the device is about to be significantly changed or modified in design components, method of manufacture or intended use. the process of obtaining 510(k) clearance generally takes at least three to six months from the date the application is filed, but could take significantly longer, and generally requires submitting supporting design and testing data, which can be extensive and can lengthen the process considerably. after a product receives 510(k) clearance, any modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may require a new 510(k) clearance. the fda requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with the manufacturer decision, it may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a request for 510(k) pre-market notification clearance and can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the product until 510(k) clearance is obtained. the fda has recently issued a draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. if we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market approval through a pma application. under the pma process, the applicant submit extensive supporting data, including, in most cases, data from clinical studies, in the pma application to establish reasonable evidence of the safety and effectiveness of the product. this process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pma is accepted for filing, but can take significantly longer for the fda to review. to date, we have only manufactured class i medical devices, which do not require pma or 510(k) clearance, and class ii medical devices, which require 510(k) clearance. we do not manufacture any class iii medical devices, which require pma. our x-ray tubes and flat panel detectors are class i medical devices, while all of the medical devices produced by our oncology systems segment and the proton therapy systems manufactured by our vpt business are class ii medical devices. quality systems, audits and failure to comply. our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the fda quality system regulation ( qsr ), which addresses a company responsibility for product design, testing, and manufacturing quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. the qsr requires that each manufacturer establish a quality systems program by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with fda regulations and the manufacturer written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. qsr compliance is necessary to receive and maintain fda clearance or approval to market new and existing products. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers and may issue reports, known as fda form 483 reports when the fda believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if these observations are not promptly and adequately responded to, the fda may issue a warning letter and/or proceed 18 table of contents directly to other forms of corrective action against us, including total shutdown of production facilities, denial of importation rights to the united states for products manufactured in overseas locations and criminal and civil fines. inspections usually occur every two years. we have responded to observations issued in a fda form 483 related to the may 2011 inspections of our oncology systems manufacturing facilities located in helsinki, finland and haan, germany. these observations generally include issues with complaint investigations, corrective actions and preventive actions, filings required under medical device reporting regulations and purchasing controls. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are adequate and reasonable scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or approvals or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. it is also important that our products comply with electrical safety and environmental standards, such as those of underwriters laboratories ( ul ), the canadian standards association ( csa ), and the international electrotechnical commission ( iec ). in addition, the manufacture and distribution of medical devices utilizing radioactive by-product material requires a specific radioactive material license. manufacture and distribution of these radioactive sources and devices also must be in accordance with an approved nrc certificate, or an agreement state registration certificate. service of these products must be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. we are also subject to a variety of additional environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. for a further discussion of these laws and regulations, see md&amp;a environmental remediation liabilities. if we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with fda and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face a number of adverse consequences, including adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; government investigations; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; or seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers. other applicable u.s. regulations. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information that we receive or have access to, including the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa, ) fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including, physician self-referral prohibitions, and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, hipaa was amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), enacted as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. the hitech act significantly increases the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under hipaa. furthermore, business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical 19 table of contents device manufacturers who receive or have access to patient health information. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that may flow to us as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. medicare and medicaid reimbursement the federal and state governments of the u.s. establish guidelines and pay reimbursements to hospitals and free-standing clinics for diagnostic examinations and therapeutic procedures under medicare at the federal level and medicaid at the state level. private insurers often establish payment levels and policies based on reimbursement rates and guidelines established by the government. the federal government and the congress review and adjust rates annually, and from time to time consider various medicare and other healthcare reform proposals that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services, including radiotherapy and radiosurgery, in hospitals and free-standing clinics. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. state government reimbursement for services is determined pursuant to each state medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations, subject to requirements of federal law and regulations. the balanced budget act of 1997 revised the medicaid program to give each state more control over coverage and payment issues. in addition, the u.s. centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the medicaid program at the state level. the impact on our business of this greater state control on medicaid payment for diagnostic services remains uncertain. we are continuing to evaluate the affordable health care for america act and its potential impact on our business. specifically, one of the components of the new law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems products, starting in 2013. this tax may put increased pressure on medical device manufacturers and purchasers, and may lead our customers to reduce their orders for products we produce or to request that we reduce the prices we charge for our products in order to offset the tax. other elements of this new legislation, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and other provisions, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we believe that the uncertainty created by healthcare reform in the united states has complicated our customers decision-making process and impacted our oncology systems and vpt businesses, and we expect that this uncertainty will persist until there is greater clarity on how the affordable health care for america act and state proposals will affect healthcare providers. the sale of medical devices including radiotherapy products, the referral of patients for diagnostic examinations and treatments utilizing such devices, and the submission of claims to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) seeking reimbursement for such services, are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. these laws include physician self-referral prohibitions, anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. subject to enumerated exceptions, the federal physician self-referral law, also known as stark ii, prohibits a physician from referring medicare or medicaid patients to an entity with which the physician (or a family member) has a financial relationship, if the referral is for a designated health service, which is defined explicitly to include 20 table of contents radiology and radiation therapy services. anti-kickback laws make it illegal to solicit, induce, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for the referral of business, including the purchase of medical devices from a particular manufacturer or the referral of patients to a particular supplier of diagnostic services utilizing such devices. false claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payors (including medicare and medicaid) that are false or fraudulent, for services not provided as claimed, or for medically unnecessary services. the office of the inspector general prosecutes violations of fraud and abuse laws and any violation may result in criminal and/or civil sanctions including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid. foreign regulations our operations, sales and service of our products outside the united states are subject to regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and may differ significantly from those in the united states. in general, our products are regulated outside the united states as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. marketing a medical device internationally. in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. we are required to affix the conformit&eacute; europ&eacute;enne ( ce ) mark to our products in order to sell them in member countries of the european economic area ( eea ). the ce mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness, which once affixed enables a product to be sold in member countries of the eea. the ce mark is also recognized in many countries outside the eea, such as switzerland and australia, and can assist in the clearance process. in order to receive permission to affix the ce mark to our products, we must obtain quality system certification, e.g., iso 13485, and must otherwise have a quality management system that complies with the european union ( eu ) medical device directive. the iso promulgates standards for certification of quality assurance operations. we are certified as complying with the iso 9001 for our sip products and iso 13485 for our medical devices. several asian countries, including japan and china, have adopted regulatory schemes that are comparable, and in some cases more stringent, than the eu scheme. to import medical devices into japan, the requirements of japan new medical device regulation must be met and a shonin, the approval to sell medical products in japan, must be obtained. similarly, in china a registration certification issued by the state food and drug administration and a china compulsory certification mark for certain products are required to sell medical devices in that country. obtaining such certifications on our products can be time-consuming and can cause us to delay marketing or sales of certain products in such countries. similarly, prior to selling a device in canada, manufacturers of class ii, iii and iv devices must obtain a medical device license. we sell class ii and class iii devices in canada. additionally, many countries have laws and regulations relating to radiation and radiation safety that also apply to our products. in most countries, radiological regulatory agencies require some form of licensing or registration by the facility prior to acquisition and operation of an x-ray generating device or a radiation source. the handling, transportation and the recycling of radioactive metals and source materials are also highly regulated. a number of countries, including the members of the eu, have implemented or are implementing regulations that would require manufacturers to dispose, or bear certain disposal costs, of products at the end of a product useful life and restrict the use of some hazardous substances in certain products sold in those countries. for a further discussion of these regulations, see md&amp;a critical accounting estimates and environmental remediation liabilities. manufacturing and selling a device internationally. we are also subject to laws and regulations outside the united states applicable to manufacturers of radiation-producing devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, and laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters, in each 21 table of contents case that are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, regulations in the united states. in addition, our sales of products in foreign countries are also subject to regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, environmental and product recycling requirements, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements. other applicable international regulations. in addition to the u.s. laws regarding the privacy and integrity of patient medical information, we are subject to similar laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. particularly within the eu/eea/switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. patent and other proprietary rights we place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes, because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace. we generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights in the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. as of september 30, 2011, we owned 300 patents issued in the united states and 102 patents issued throughout the rest of the world and had 362 patent applications on file with various patent agencies worldwide. we intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace. we also have agreements with third parties that provide for licensing of patented or proprietary technology, including royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. environmental matters for a discussion of environmental matters, see government regulation foreign regulations and md&amp;a environmental remediation liabilities, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference. financial information about geographic areas we do business globally with manufacturing in the united states, europe and china and with sales and service operations and customers throughout the world. roughly half of our revenues are generated from our international regions. in addition to the potentially adverse impact of foreign regulations, see government regulation foreign regulations, we also may be affected by other factors related to our international sales such as: lower average selling prices and profit margins; longer time periods from shipment to revenue recognition (which increases revenue recognition deferrals and time in backlog); and longer time periods from shipment to cash collection (which increases days sales outstanding ( dso ). so to the extent that the geographic distribution of our sales continues to shift more towards international regions, our overall revenues and margins may suffer. we sell our products internationally predominantly in local currencies, but our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. accordingly, there may be adverse consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may affect both the affordability and competitiveness of our products and our profit margins. we do engage in currency hedging strategies to offset the effect of currency exchange fluctuations, but the protection offered by these hedges depends upon the timing of transactions, forecast volatility, effectiveness of such hedges and the extent of currency fluctuation. 22 table of contents we are also exposed to other economic, political and other risks inherent in doing business globally. for an additional discussion of these risks, see risk factors. for a discussion of financial information about geographic areas, see note 17, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. discontinued operations in september 2008, we approved a plan to sell the scientific research instruments business ( research instruments ) that we acquired as part of our acquisition of accel in order to focus our efforts on the development of the proton therapy systems portion of the business. research instruments developed, manufactured and serviced highly customized scientific instrument components and systems for fundamental and applied physics research primarily for national research laboratories worldwide. the sale of research instruments was completed in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. in fiscal year 2011, we recognized a loss of $9.7 million for additional costs to settle the remaining customer contract related to research instruments. as of september 30, 2011, we had no remaining obligations related to research instruments. we have classified research instruments as a discontinued operation in our consolidated statements of earnings and consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. see note 18, discontinued operations of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for detailed discussion. research instruments was previously included with the vpt business, which is reported under the other category in note 17, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. employees we had approximately 5,700 full-time and part-time employees worldwide, 3,300 in the united states and 2,400 elsewhere at september 30, 2011. none of our employees based in the united states are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. employees based in some foreign countries may, from time to time, be subject to collective bargaining agreements. we currently consider our relations with our employees to be good. information available to investors as soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the sec we make the following available free of charge on the investors page of our website http://www.varian.com : our annual reports on form 10-k; quarterly reports on form 10-q; and current reports on form 8-k (including any amendments to those reports); and our proxy statements. our code of business ethics, corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the audit committee, compensation and management development committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available on the investors page of our website. please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed filed with the sec and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), or the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). 23 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the biographical summaries of our executive officers, as of november 1, 2011, as of are as follows: name age position timothy e. guertin 62 president and chief executive officer dow r. wilson 52 corporate executive vice president and chief operating officer elisha w. finney 50 corporate senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer kolleen t. kennedy 52 corporate senior vice president and president, oncology systems robert h. kluge 65 corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products tai-yun chen 59 corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller john w. kuo 48 corporate vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary timothy e. guertin has been chief executive officer since february 2006 and president since august 2005. previously, mr. guertin served as chief operating officer from october 2004 to february 2006, and corporate executive vice president from october 2002 to august 2005. mr. guertin also served as president of our oncology systems business unit from 1992 to january 2005. mr. guertin was corporate vice president from 1992 to 2002. mr. guertin has held various other positions in the medical systems business during his 35 years with the company. mr. guertin holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the university of california at berkeley. dow r. wilson was appointed corporate executive vice president and chief operating officer effective october 2011. mr. wilson served as corporate executive vice president and president, oncology systems from august 2005 through september 2011. mr. wilson served as corporate vice president and president, oncology systems from january 2005 to august 2005. prior to joining the company in january 2005, mr. wilson was chief executive officer of the healthcare-information technologies business in general electric (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. previously, mr. wilson served as general manager, surgical, x-ray and interventional businesses and general manager, functional imaging of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2002 to 2003, and was general manager, computed tomography of the healthcare-information technologies business from 2000 to 2002. during the previous 15 years, mr. wilson held various management positions within general electric. mr. wilson holds a b.a. degree in english from brigham young university and an m.b.a. degree from dartmouth amos tuck school of business. mr. wilson has served on the board of directors of saba software, inc. (an e-learning software provider) since august 2006 and in august 2011 was named the lead independent director of that board. elisha w. finney was appointed corporate senior vice president, finance, in addition to being chief financial officer, in january 2005. ms. finney was corporate vice president and chief financial officer from april 1999 to january 2005. ms. finney has held various other positions, including treasurer, during her 23 years with the company. ms. finney holds a b.b.a. degree in risk management and insurance from the university of georgia and an m.b.a. degree from golden gate university in san francisco. ms. finney was appointed a director of thoratec corporation (a medical device manufacturer) in june 2007 and joined the board of altera corporation (a supplier of custom logic solutions) in august 2011. kolleen t. kennedy was appointed corporate senior vice president and president, oncology systems effective october 2011. from january 2006 through september 2011, ms. kennedy served as vice president, oncology systems customer service and support. prior to that, ms. kennedy was the company vice president, oncology systems marketing, product management and engineering from september 2004 to january 2006. prior to becoming vice president, ms. kennedy served in various marketing management positions since she joined the company in 1997. ms. kennedy holds a b.s. degree in radiation oncology and a b.s. degree in psychology, both from wayne state university, as well as an m.b.a. in medical physics from the university of colorado. 24 table of contents robert h. kluge was appointed corporate senior vice president and president, x-ray products of the company in february 2008. prior to that, mr. kluge served as corporate vice president and president, x-ray products from december 1999 to february 2008 and as vice president and general manager of our x-ray products business from 1993 to december 1999. before joining the company in 1993, mr. kluge held various positions with picker international (an x-ray systems manufacturer). mr. kluge holds a b.a. degree in economics and an m.b.a. degree in finance from the university of wisconsin. tai-yun chen was appointed corporate vice president, finance and corporate controller in august 2006. from february 2006 to august 2006, ms. chen served as the company operations controller. prior to that, from january 2002 to february 2006, ms. chen was the company assistant corporate controller, and from 2000 to january 2002 ms. chen was the company director of corporate accounting. ms. chen has served in various accounting management positions throughout the company during her 28 years with the company. ms. chen holds a bachelor degree in economics from the national chung chi university in taiwan and a master degree in managerial economics from the university of california at santa barbara. john w. kuo was appointed corporate vice president, general counsel in july 2005 and corporate secretary in february 2005. mr. kuo joined the company as senior corporate counsel in march 2003 and became associate general counsel in march 2004. prior to joining the company, mr. kuo was general counsel and secretary at broadvision, inc. (an e-commerce software provider) in 2002 and held senior legal positions at 3com corporation (a networking equipment provider) from 1997 to 2002. mr. kuo has previously been with the law firms of gray cary ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper) and fulbright &amp; jaworski. mr. kuo holds a b.a. degree from cornell university and a j.d. degree from boalt hall school of law at the university of california at berkeley. item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. if our products and product lines fail to continue to meet customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer we believe that imrt, including volumetric modulated arc therapy, and igrt have become accepted standards for treatment in the radiation oncology market. demand for our imrt and igrt products have been the drivers for our net orders and revenues in oncology systems and, because of the significance of oncology systems, on our business in general. we recently introduced truebeam, a new line of linear accelerators for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and unique, a low-energy linear accelerator for more price sensitive markets in international regions, to meet the evolving needs of our imrt and igrt customers. we believe truebeam will be a valuable tool for clinicians in the fight against cancer and to stimulate faster replacement of older systems in our installed base. we also believe that our rapidarc products for volumetric modulated arc therapy, are a significant advance in imrt treatments and can help drive longer term demand for our linear accelerators and imrt- and igrt-related products. orders for these new products and products lines have contributed greatly to our recent orders growth and are keys to our future success. if our customers do not purchase these products or if future studies call into question the effectiveness of these or our other imrt or igrt products (including other volumetric modulated arc therapy products) or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our net orders, revenues and financial results could suffer. as more institutions buy or upgrade to achieve imrt and igrt capabilities, the market for these 25 table of contents products (including volumetric modulated arc therapy products) may become saturated. alternatively, the marketplace may conclude that functions and features of our products should no longer be an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. our x-ray products business sells products primarily to a small number of imaging system oem customers who use our products in their medical diagnostic and industrial imaging systems. to succeed, we must provide x-ray tube and flat panel detector products that meet customer demands for lower cost, better product quality and superior technology and performance. if we are unable to continue to innovate our x-ray products technology and anticipate our customers demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our customers may purchase from other tube or panel manufacturers (including the in-house operations of some of these customers), which would negatively impact this business. in both the oncology systems and x-ray products businesses, and in our other product lines, we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers. our competitors may develop products or processes that are superior to what we can then offer. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the markets for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products and enhancements to existing product lines rapid change and technological innovation characterize the oncology systems market. our products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing product lines. our oncology systems products, including new products such as truebeam and rapidarc, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, if not be superior to, the products of our competitors. our x-ray products business must also continually develop improved and lower cost products. we are making significant investments in long-term growth initiatives, such as development of our sip and vpt businesses, and expect that we will need to invest more to develop and commercialize the products and technology for these businesses. accordingly, many of our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing, as well as significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part. we may need to spend more time and money than we expect to develop and introduce new products or enhancements and, even if we succeed, they may not be sufficiently profitable that we are able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, and could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact our success with new products or enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; prove the feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes timely and efficiently; 26 table of contents limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; appropriately manage our supply chain; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the qsr of the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. new products generally take longer to install than well-established products. because a portion of a product revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. in addition, even if we succeed in our product introductions, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. slightly more than half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 55%, 57% and 50% of revenues from continuing operations during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so, although we cannot be sure we will be able to meet our sales, service and support objectives or obligations, or recover our investments. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country legal systems; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; currency fluctuations; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; the imposition by foreign countries of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade; the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in the international region; 27 table of contents the longer period in the international region from shipment to revenue recognition that generally results in greater revenue recognition deferrals and higher backlog; any inability to obtain export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international region has represented a larger share of our business. the more we depend on sales in the international region, the more vulnerable we become to these factors. as of september 30, 2011, 97% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, they could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the respective countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. earnings from our international region are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. a change in the percentage of our total earnings from the international region, or a change in the mix of particular tax jurisdictions within the international region could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. also, we are not currently taxed in the united states on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or u.s. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed or actually remitted to the united states, or if tax laws change, in which case our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, congress has considered proposals that would significantly change u.s. taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations. although we cannot predict whether or in what form congress would enact any such proposals, legislation of this type could negatively impact our effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results. our results have been and may continue to be affected by continuing worldwide economic instability since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis; the credit market crisis; collateral effects on the finance and banking industries; volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs; concerns about inflation (deflation), slower economic activity, consumer confidence, corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity and unemployment; and concerns over the downgrade of u.s. sovereign debt and continued sovereign debt uncertainties in europe and other foreign countries. these conditions have shrunk capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and more time consuming to obtain, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and reduced their confidence. this, in turn, has caused our customers to freeze, delay or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures. even though economic activity has shown some improvement, recovery has been sluggish and we cannot predict the strength or sustainability of an economic recovery, in general or specifically in the healthcare industry. it has taken time for our customers to establish new budgets and may take more time for them 28 table of contents to fully return to normal purchasing patterns. project delays may continue, particularly as they relate to large scale or government projects, which may be affected by austerity measures. alternatively, in the past, some countries, including japan, have adopted and may in the future adopt government stimulus programs to revitalize their economies and improve healthcare and medical services. the availability of stimulus programs in the future could positively affect our results in one period and adversely affect our results in other periods, making it difficult for investors to compare our financial results between fiscal periods. weak economic recovery may also disrupt supply if vendors consolidate or go out of business. as with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. historically, our business has felt the effects of market trends later than other sectors in the healthcare industry, such as diagnostic radiology, and we may experience the effects of any economic recovery later than others in the healthcare industry. a continued weak or deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could prevent us from distributing our products, require us to recall our products and result in significant penalties our products and those of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the united states. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. furthermore, public media reports on misadministrations of radiotherapy in patients and focus on the role of the fda in regulating medical devices has led to increased scrutiny of medical device companies and an increased likelihood of enforcement actions. u.s. laws governing marketing a medical device. in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, nrc and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pma before it can market or sell those products in the united states. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may also require a new 510(k) clearance. the fda has recently issued a draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. although manufactures make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, we cannot assure you that the fda will agree with our decisions not to seek additional approvals or clearances for particular modifications to our products or that we will be successful in obtaining new 510(k) clearances for modifications. obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain. we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for the product. if we were unable to obtain required 29 table of contents fda clearance or approval for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business could suffer. in the past, in the united states, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. the 510(k) clearance process is generally less time-consuming, expensive and uncertain than the pma process. however, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the pma approval process, or a special more time-consuming 510(k) clearance process, rather than the current 510(k) clearance process. if we were required to use either of these lengthy processes for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. the fda recently announced its 510(k) clearance reform plan. we are currently analyzing how this plan, if fully implemented, may affect us and our ability to obtain product clearances. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations, including fda rules and regulations that are applicable to the clinical trial process and protection of study subjects. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could be quite costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. quality systems, audits and failure to comply. our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the fda qsr, as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections issues reports, known as form fda 483 reports when the fda believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if observations from the fda issued on form fda 483 reports are not addressed and/or corrective action taken in a timely manner and to the fda satisfaction, the fda may issue a warning letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. similarly, if a warning letter were issued, prompt corrective action to come into compliance would be required. failure to respond timely to form fda 483 observations, a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities, denial of importation rights to the u.s. for products manufactured in overseas locations, adverse publicity and criminal and civil fines. the expense and costs of any corrective actions that we may take, which may include products recalls, correction and removal of products from customer sites and/or changes to our product manufacturing and quality systems, could adversely impact our financial results and may also divert management resources, attention and time. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. currently, we are responding to and working with the fda to fully resolve form fda 483 observations issued in may 2011 related to the inspections of our oncology systems manufacturing facilities located in helsinki, finland and haan, germany. these observations generally include issues with complaint investigations, corrective actions and preventive actions, filings required under medical device reporting regulations and purchasing controls. while in the past, we have received form 483 observations that we successfully resolved with the fda, we cannot be certain that we will have similar success in promptly resolving these observations. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations ( mdrs ), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these 30 table of contents reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a publicly available correction and removal report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda, other international regulatory agencies and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our devices. furthermore, the submission of these reports have been and could be used by competitors against us in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions, cancel orders or adversely affect our reputation. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. our manufacture, distribution, installation and service of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. obtaining licenses and certifications may be time consuming, expensive and uncertain. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. the fda and the ftc also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are adequate and reasonable scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including warning letters, and may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors or customers fail to comply with fda, ftc and other applicable u.s. regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations by governmental authorities or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; the inability to sell our products; 31 table of contents difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and civil fines and criminal prosecutions. other applicable u.s. regulations. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information that we receive, including hipaa, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, hipaa was amended by the hitech act, enacted as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. the hitech act significantly increases the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under hipaa. furthermore, business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers who receive or have access to patient health information. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that may flow to us as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. compliance with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products may be costly, and failure to comply may result in significant penalties regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the united states vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the united states. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. marketing a medical device internationally. in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, expensive and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the inclusion of significant limitations on the indicated uses of a product, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the medical device directive. this conformity to the medical device directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body. once clearance is obtained and the ce mark is affixed to the device, 32 table of contents the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive. by affixing the ce mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept ce mark standards. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive, we would lose our right to affix the ce mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eu/eea/switzerland territory. significant revisions to some of the applicable regulations governing requirements for medical devices in the eu/eea/switzerland went into effect in march 2010. these revisions have introduced additional uncertainty into the marketing authorization process for medical devices in europe. until medical device manufacturers and european regulatory agencies, including notified bodies and competent authorities, have greater experience with interpreting and applying the revised regulations, we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers facilities in order to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with international regulatory authorities, including reports required by international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not timely filed, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities internationally, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could be quite costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. manufacturing and selling a device internationally. we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors or customers fail to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations by governmental authorities; fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions; increased difficulty in obtaining required approvals in foreign countries; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; and the inability to sell our products in or to import our products into such countries. 33 table of contents other applicable international regulations. we are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. particularly within the eu/eea/switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. data protection authorities from the different member states of the eu may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and timely, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable u.s. law relating to data privacy, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with eu/eea/switzerland data protection rules. failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the eu/eea/switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. the affordable healthcare for america act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the affordable health care for america act. while we are continuing to evaluate this legislation and its potential impact on our business, and many of its provisions are yet to be implemented, it may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the new law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems products, starting in 2013. the congressional budget office estimates that the total cost to the medical device industry could exceed $20 billion over ten years. this tax may put increased pressure on medical device manufacturers and purchasers, and may lead our customers to reduce their orders for products we produce or to request that we reduce the prices we charge for our products in order to offset the tax. other elements of this new legislation, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals (the physician payment sunshine act ), could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we believe that the uncertainty created by healthcare reform in the united states has complicated our customers decision-making process and impacted our oncology systems business, and we expect that this uncertainty will persist until there is greater clarity on how the affordable health care for america act and state proposals will affect healthcare providers. we are unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding these matters will have on our customer purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. 34 table of contents changes to radiation oncology reimbursements may affect demand for our products sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, third-party payors in the united states are increasingly cost-conscious, and we cannot be sure that they will reimburse our customers at levels sufficient to enable us to achieve or maintain sales and price levels for our products in this market. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, nor can we be sure that procedures using our products will qualify for appropriate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by cms to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. if comparative effectiveness studies are not available, or if available studies show that other cancer treatments are more effective than radiotherapy or radiosurgery, reimbursement rates for radiotherapy or radiosurgery could be reduced. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand or our expenses and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we provide in foreign markets. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, and the effectiveness of those strategies, the number of transactions that are hedged, forecast volatility and the extent to which exchange rates change. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues and other operating results may be harmed. in addition, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. furthermore, on july 21, 2010, president obama signed into law the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ). the dodd-frank act contains provisions which may impact our existing hedging strategies, but we cannot predict those effects at this time. 35 table of contents in addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. even though our international sales are mostly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. the volatility of the u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, some of which may have cost structures based in other currencies, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic instability or concerns about the downgrade and levels of sovereign debt, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business laws and ethical rules governing interactions with healthcare providers. the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount and rebate practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. violating anti-kickback and false claims laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several recently enacted state and federal laws, including the laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act, now require, among other things, extensive tracking and maintenance of databases regarding the disclosure of relationships and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. these laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certain payments to healthcare providers. failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 36 table of contents anti-corruption laws and regulations. we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011. in general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anticorruption laws and their enforcement. any violation of these laws could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international 2010 corruption perceptions index measured the degree to which public sector corruption is perceived to exist in 178 countries around the world, and found that nearly three quarters of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below five, on a scale from 10 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigate and protect against corruption risks could be quite costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets and could adversely affect our business. this notwithstanding, we will inevitably do more business in countries where the public sector is perceived to be more or highly corrupt and be engaging in business in more countries perceived to be more or highly corrupt. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, from time to time, we may conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body, other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our medical products operate within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure, as well as liability related to the loss or misuse of private patient data. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. litigation and other legal proceedings can be costly and can divert management time and resources. an unfavorable outcome in litigation or proceedings against us could adversely 37 table of contents affect our financial results. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments, even ones that do not involve our products, could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy treatments, causing them to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and seek other methods of treatment and adversely impacting our business. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation of radiation therapy, medical devices or the healthcare industry in general. increased regulatory activities could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products, and therefore negatively impact our business and results of operations. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and accruing losses under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( gaap ). we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may also prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, we could have to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software. some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. also, we believe that new competitors will enter our markets, as we have encountered new competitors as we have entered new markets such as radiosurgery, volumetric modulated arc therapy and proton therapy. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, in a complete package of products and services, and to do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. in addition, additional competitors may delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our net orders. in x-ray imaging components and subsystems, we also often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers who compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. as a result, we must have a competitive advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. 38 table of contents in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fragmented. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, high competition and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, our ability to lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of technologies such as obi for igrt and motion management technologies such as respiratory gating and calypso. in each of our business segments, existing competitors actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. open architecture is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to achieve this as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training and education to use them competently and safely, requirements made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) enhancing the ease of use of our software products and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times and increasing patient throughput. we have emphasized maintaining an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our various individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation therapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems, however, that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely used radiation oncology products manufactured by other companies, if this cannot be done, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly. when other companies modify the design or 39 table of contents functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. when we implement design improvements to our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to us to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, and in either case our competitive position would be harmed if we are not able to do so we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products the industries in which we compete are characterized by a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe those intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others 40 table of contents that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, and we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, which could be material. if a third party rights holder is willing to license rights, we may be required to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators; transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other x-ray tube components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. if we lose any of these suppliers or if their operations were substantially interrupted, we would be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers, which may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of such product by the fda or other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have insurance to protect against business interruption loss, this insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. additionally, some of our single-source suppliers supply components for certain of our rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for any of our product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs by increasing prices. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-source components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. a shortage of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray tubes, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for vpt. demand for these raw materials both within the united states and from foreign countries, such as china, has increased over the last few years, resulting in limited supplies and higher prices. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted and prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. 41 table of contents consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. as customers consolidate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity. as a result, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen, as orders increase in size and require more customer approvals. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our net orders to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in net orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. we sell our x-ray products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, and a reduction in business or inability to properly forecast sales by one or more of these customers could reduce our sales we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors with in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations. if these customers manufacture a greater percentage of their components in-house or otherwise lower external sourcing costs, we could experience the loss of, or reduction in purchasing volume by, one or more of these customers. such a loss or reduction could have a material adverse effect on our x-ray products business. in addition, economic concerns, such as concerns over a sluggish economic recovery, levels of sovereign debt or restrictions in government spending, as well as the effects of natural disasters (such as power outages and facility closures), have made it difficult for our oem customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and our x-ray business has in the past been impacted by inventory reduction efforts and a slowdown in sales at some of these customers. our agreements for x-ray components may contain purchasing estimates that are based on our customers historical purchasing patterns, and actual purchasing volumes under the agreements may vary significantly from our estimates. orders for our security and inspection products could be unpredictable our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in the sip business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. however, use of linear accelerator and imaging technology in security cargo screening and border protection is in its early stages. orders for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or our oem customers in a short time period, and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. because it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery and acceptance schedules, the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition will vary significantly. in addition, our sip business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to political changes. we have seen customers 42 table of contents freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, delay projects, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. as economic recovery remains sluggish and concerns about levels of government employment and government debt continue, we expect that these effects will also continue. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have previously encountered with a large government project, which can make the certainty and timing of some sip orders unpredictable. as a result, this business is subject to unpredictability in the timing of orders, sales and revenue that could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of a new treatment procedure such as imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, srs, sbrt or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of our products. for example, the complexity and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have expended and will continue to expend significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, srs, sbrt and proton therapy generally; to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies; and to promote the safe use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense on their education. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, expand, integrate, train and retain our management team, qualified engineering personnel, and service, sales, marketing and other qualified staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire, train or retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business, and our business would suffer. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer our products have a long production cycle and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders timely, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. 43 table of contents if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or may harm our business we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, in march 2011 we acquired all of the outstanding equity of a privately-held supplier of devices for delivery of brachytherapy treatment of cancer and in october 2011 acquired calypso. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we are experiencing with our proton therapy systems, which could impact our results of operations. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. even if we do so, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies, growth or benefits we expected. if we decide to sell assets or a business, as we did in fiscal year 2008 with research instruments, it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. additionally, we may be required to dispose of a business at a lower price or on less advantageous terms, or to recognize greater losses, than we had anticipated. we account for our acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. under this method, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and in-process research and development costs based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as proton therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with this, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins than 44 table of contents existing products. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks in the development and implementation of new businesses successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we work with distributors for sales in some territories, and losing them could harm our revenues in that territory we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products, principally in europe and asia. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales in these territories and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly net orders, revenues, and margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and margins. drivers of orders include timing of announcement of and introduction of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and expect this to be even greater with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. as a result of the sluggish recovery from the 2008 worldwide economic downturn and contraction in credit markets, as well as continued uncertainty regarding global economic conditions, the purchasing cycle has extended and may extend even further as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles even further. the timing of when individual orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenues and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due, for example, to unanticipated construction delays at customer locations where our products are to be installed, cancellations or rescheduling by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters or port strikes; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; for proton therapy systems, failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of appropriate regulatory approvals or authorizations. 45 table of contents our quarterly operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors pricing or discount levels; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by the international region; fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our x-ray products; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which are presently below the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. high levels of order cancellation or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce the quarterly net orders and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. our net orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. the financial results of our varian particle therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable the development of the business we now call vpt enables us to offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. our success in this area will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. however, this technology has not been and future developments may not be accepted as quickly as others. since proton therapy projects are highly customized and are generally large and more complex, planning for these projects will take more time and use more resources than those in the radiotherapy business conducted in our oncology systems segment. due to its relatively large scale, the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. 46 table of contents consequently, this business is vulnerable to general economic and market conditions. the worldwide economic downturn resulted in a contraction in credit markets. this has made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request that we participate in financing arrangements (such as we recently did for the scripps proton therapy center) or payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could impact our operating results. in addition, due to their size and complexity, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years. as a result, the timing of these projects, and therefore our operating results for this business, may vary significantly from period to period. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of vpt business for the foreseeable future. because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large, an order in one fiscal period will cause our net orders to vary significantly, making comparisons between fiscal periods more difficult. further, the award of a proton therapy system order may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than other products. if a customer cancels an order for a proton therapy system, such as occurred with the order for a proton therapy system for skandion kliniken in sweden, it would negatively impact our orders in the fiscal period in which the order is cancelled and we would lose the opportunity for the product and services revenues that the order represents. in addition, many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require a long lead time, which may require an increase in our levels of inventory. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of vpt that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. moreover, entrance into the proton therapy business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project, as well as in some situations participate in or provide project financing for the project. providing financing for one or more proton therapy centers, such as the scripps proton therapy center, could adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide any assurance that a center will be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to provide incremental revenue to us, that a loan commitment may be syndicated to third parties or refinanced at maturity, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at maturity. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off its debts and if we cannot recover our investment from the sale of any collateral, we may be required to write off the debt investment, which would adversely affect our financial results. if we must establish special purpose entities to finance and manage a proton therapy project, we may be required to consolidate these special purpose entities in our financial statements. since the cost of each proton therapy center project will generally exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss may be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. this and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. 47 table of contents we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a revolving credit facility that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the fasb, american institute of certified public accountants, the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including that regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. additionally, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and proton therapy commissioning contracts and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our sip business under the percentage-of-completion method, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply these methods to other businesses in the future. the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. for example, revenues recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. in circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. recognizing revenues using the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin, as we are doing with the revenues associated with the scripps proton therapy center, will lower our gross margins and make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. 48 table of contents environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted a directive that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in some of our products sold there. this directive, along with another that requires material disclosure information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. as a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may participate in project financing or offer extended payment terms, which may adversely affect our financial results we have provided financing for the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center, and we may be requested to provide financing to other potential vpt customers in the future. some of this financing may be secured by assets of the borrower. providing such financing could adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide any assurance that a center will be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to provide incremental revenue to us, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at maturity. in addition, in connection with our financing of the scripps proton therapy center, we cannot provide any assurance that that any portion of our loan commitment can be syndicated to third parties by orix capital markets llc, the agent for the lenders, or that the loan facility can be successfully refinanced upon the maturity of the loan, which has a maximum term of six years. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off its debts and if we cannot recover our investment from the sale of any collateral, we may be required to write off the debt investment, which would adversely affect our financial results. in addition, in some circumstances we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in our other businesses. many of the areas where we offer such longer or extended payment terms have under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. as of september 30, 2011, customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to less than 1% of our accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, which would affect our net earnings. in addition, longer or extended payment terms could impact the timing of our revenue recognition, and they have in the past and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. 49 table of contents disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relations. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. moreover, we manufacture and sell products that allow our customers to store confidential information about their patients. while we have implemented security measures to protect our systems from unauthorized access, these measures do not secure our customers equipment or any information stored in our customers systems or at their locations. a breach of network security and systems or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, our customers stored information could have serious negative consequences for our business, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers damaged manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. even if we are able to quickly respond to a disaster, the ongoing effects of the disaster could create some uncertainty in the operations of our businesses, such as the recent catastrophe in japan has created. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as the swine flu, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. 50 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on the credit facility described below under interest rate risk . our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the economic downturn of 2008 and 2009 and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency sales transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments 81 table of contents in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to twelve months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased forward exchange contracts outstanding at september 30, 2011 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 17.1 $ 1.0301 british pound 18.4 0.6408 danish krone 1.4 5.5420 euro 137.1 14.9 0.7449 japanese yen 59.5 77.0477 new zealand dollar 3.1 1.3046 norwegian krone 7.4 5.8602 swedish krona 2.4 6.8578 swiss franc 34.6 0.9070 totals $ 228.0 $ 67.9 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and short-term borrowings. our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents and a short-term investment as of september 30, 2011. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 30, 2011 totaled $564 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.19%. at september 30, 2011, our short-term investment represented a loan of $19.2 million to cptc, which bears interest at libor plus 6.25% per annum with a minimum interest rate of 8.25% per annum. the amended bofa credit facility (including the japanese line of credit) allows us to borrow up to a maximum amount of $300 million. we collateralized a portion of the amended bofa credit facility with a pledge of 65% of the voting shares that we hold in varian medical systems nederland b.v., a wholly-owned subsidiary. borrowings under the amended bofa credit facility (outside of the japanese line of credit) accrue interest based on the libor, the federal funds rate, or the bofa prime rate plus a margin. borrowings under the japanese line of credit accrue interest at the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under the amended bofa credit facility (including the japanese line of credit). as of september 30, 2011, the amount outstanding under the amended bofa credit facility was $181 million, none of which was outstanding under the japanese line of credit, with interest being accrued on libor or bofa prime rate plus a margin. if the amount outstanding under the amended bofa credit 82 table of contents facility remained at this level for an entire year and the libor and bofa prime rate increased or decreased, respectively, by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $1.8 million. see a detailed discussion of the amended bofa credit facility in item 7, md&amp;a- liquidity and capital resources. in addition, we had $16.1 million of long-term debt (including the current maturities of long term debt) outstanding at september 30, 2011that carried a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.8% with principal payments due in various installments over a three-year period. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate of our investment portfolio, short-term borrowings or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and long term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 564.5 $ $ $ $ $ $ 564.5 average interest rate(1) 0.19 % 0.19 % short-term investment(2) $ 19.2 $ $ $ $ $ $ 19.2 average interest rate(1) 8.25 % 8.25 % liabilities: long-term debt $ 9.9 $ $ 6.2 $ $ $ $ 16.1 average interest rate 6.93 % 6.70 % 6.84 % short-term borrowings under credit facility $ 181.4 $ $ $ $ $ $ 181.4 average interest rate(1) 1.05 % 1.05 % (1) represents interest rates effective as of september 30, 2011. (2) represents amount loaned to cptc under a loan facility. see note 16, variable interest entity of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion. the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents and the estimated fair value of our short-term borrowings under the credit facility approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the estimated fair value of our short-term investment also approximated the principal amount as this investment was made at the end of fiscal year 2011. the fair value of our long-term debt was estimated based on the current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities. under this method, the fair value of our debt was estimated to be $17.2 million at september 30, 2011. we determined the estimated fair value amount by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. however, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value. accordingly, the fair value estimate presented herein is not necessarily indicative of the amount that we or holders of the instruments could realize in a current market exchange. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 83 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. if our products and product lines fail to continue to meet customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer we believe that imrt, including volumetric modulated arc therapy, and igrt have become accepted standards for treatment in the radiation oncology market. demand for our imrt and igrt products have been the drivers for our net orders and revenues in oncology systems and, because of the significance of oncology systems, in our business in general. we have introduced products such as truebeam, a line of linear accelerators for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and unique, a less complex, low-energy linear accelerator for the more price sensitive emerging markets, to meet the evolving needs of our imrt and igrt customers. we believe truebeam is a valuable tool for clinicians in the fight against cancer and will stimulate faster replacement of older systems in our installed base. we also believe that our rapidarc products for volumetric modulated arc therapy are a significant advance in imrt treatments and can help drive longer term demand for our linear accelerators and imrt- and igrt-related products. orders for these products and products lines have contributed greatly to our orders and revenue growth and are keys to our future success. if our customers do not purchase these products or if future studies call into question the effectiveness of these or our other imrt or igrt products (including other volumetric modulated arc therapy products) or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our net orders, revenues and financial 24 table of contents results could suffer. as more institutions buy or upgrade to achieve imrt and igrt capabilities, the market for these products (including volumetric modulated arc therapy products) may become saturated. alternatively, the marketplace may conclude that functions and features of our products should no longer be an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. our x-ray products business sells products primarily to a small number of imaging system oem customers who use our products in their medical diagnostic and industrial imaging systems. to succeed, we must provide products that meet customer demands for product quality, superior technology and product performance at a competitive cost. if we are unable to continue to innovate our x-ray products technology and anticipate our customers demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our customers may purchase from other tube or panel manufacturers (including the in-house operations of some of these customers), which would negatively impact this business. in both the oncology systems and x-ray products businesses, and in our other product lines, we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers. our competitors may develop products or processes that are superior to what we can then offer. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and our products may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the markets for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products and enhancements to or simplifications of existing product lines rapid change and technological innovation characterize the oncology systems market. our products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing product lines. our oncology systems products, including products such as truebeam and rapidarc, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, if not be superior to, the products of our competitors. our x-ray products business must also continually improved products at competitive costs. we are investing in long-term growth initiatives, such as development of our sip and vpt businesses, and expect that we will need to invest more to develop and commercialize new products and technology for these businesses. accordingly, many of our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing, as well as significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part. we may need to spend more time and money than we expect to develop and introduce new products or enhancements and, even if we succeed, they may not be sufficiently profitable that we are able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, and could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty, associated with new products may be proportionately greater than other products, and may therefore adversely affect our gross and operating margins. if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact our success with new products or enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; prove the feasibility of new products; 25 table of contents limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; appropriately manage our supply chain; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the qsr of the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. new products generally take longer to install than well-established products. because a portion of a product revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. in addition, even if we succeed in our product introductions, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. slightly more than half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 56%, 55% and 57% of revenues from continuing operations during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so. we cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to meet our sales, service and support objectives or obligations in these international markets, or recover our investments. for example, we have aligned our resources to support sales and marketing efforts in emerging markets. our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: the difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country legal systems; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; currency fluctuations; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; 26 table of contents the imposition by foreign countries of additional taxes, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade; the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in the international region, in particular emerging markets; the longer period in the international region from placement of any order to revenue recognition; any inability to obtain export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international region has represented a larger share of our business. the more we depend on sales in the international region, the more vulnerable we become to these factors. as of september 28, 2012, 93% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, they could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. earnings from our international region are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. a change in the percentage of our total earnings from the international region, or a change in the mix of particular tax jurisdictions within the international region could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. also, we are not currently taxed in the united states on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or u.s. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed or actually remitted to the united states, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected. in addition, there have been proposals that would significantly change u.s. taxation of u.s.-based multinational corporations. although we cannot predict whether or in what form congress would enact any such proposals, legislation of this type could negatively impact our effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results. our results have been and may continue to be affected by continuing worldwide economic instability since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis; the credit market crisis; collateral effects on the finance and banking industries; volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs; concerns about inflation (deflation), slower economic activity, consumer confidence, corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, liquidity and unemployment; concerns over the downgrade of the sovereign debt of the united states and several european countries; continued sovereign debt and banking system uncertainties in europe and other foreign countries and now concerns regarding slowing growth in china, recession in europe and faltering economic growth in the united states. in many markets, these conditions have shrunk capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and 27 table of contents more time consuming to obtain, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and reduced their confidence. this, in turn, has caused our customers to freeze, delay or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures. project delays may continue, particularly as they relate to large scale or government projects, which may be affected by austerity measures. alternatively, in the past, some countries have adopted and may in the future adopt government stimulus programs to revitalize their economies and improve healthcare and medical services. the availability of stimulus programs in the future could positively affect our results in one period and adversely affect our results in other periods, making it difficult for investors to compare our financial results between fiscal periods. weak economic recovery may also disrupt supply if vendors consolidate or go out of business. as with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. historically, our business has felt the effects of market trends later than other sectors in the healthcare industry, such as diagnostic radiology, and we may experience the effects of any economic recovery later than others in the healthcare industry. a continued weak or deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could prevent us from distributing our products, require us to recall our products and result in significant penalties our products and those of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the united states. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. furthermore, public media reports on misadministrations of radiotherapy in patients and focus on the role of the fda in regulating medical devices has led to increased scrutiny of medical device companies and an increased likelihood of enforcement actions. u.s. laws governing marketing a medical device . in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, nrc and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pma before it can market or sell those products in the united states. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. the fda has recently issued a draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. although manufactures make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, we cannot assure you that the fda will agree with our decisions not to seek additional approvals or clearances for particular modifications to our products or that we will be successful in obtaining new 510(k) clearances for modifications. obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and the pma process is more complex than the 510(k) 28 table of contents clearance process. we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for the product. if we were unable to obtain required fda clearance or approval for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business could suffer. in the past, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. however, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the pma approval process. if we were required to use the pma process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. the fda recently released its draft guidance document on the 510(k). we are currently analyzing how this plan, if fully implemented, may affect us and our ability to obtain product clearances. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations, including fda rules and regulations that are applicable to the clinical trial process and protection of study subjects. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. quality systems . our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the fda qsr, as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections issues reports, known as form fda 483 reports when the fda believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if observations from the fda issued on form fda 483 reports are not addressed and/or corrective action taken in a timely manner and to the fda satisfaction, the fda may issue a warning letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. similarly, if a warning letter were issued, prompt corrective action to come into compliance would be required. failure to respond timely to form fda 483 observations, a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities, denial of importation rights to the u.s. for products manufactured in overseas locations, adverse publicity and criminal and civil fines. the expense and costs of any corrective actions that we may take, which may include products recalls, correction and removal of products from customer sites and/or changes to our product manufacturing and quality systems, could adversely impact our financial results and may also divert management resources, attention and time. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. we recently completed our final response to the fda for the form fda 483 observations issued in may 2011 related to the inspections of our oncology systems manufacturing facilities located in helsinki, finland and haan, germany. these observations generally included issues with complaint investigations, corrective actions and preventive actions, filings required under medical device reporting regulations and purchasing controls. the fda has indicated that no further regulatory action will be taken regarding the haan, germany inspection and that all the corrective actions from the observations will be verified in the next fda inspection. we have received our eirs for both the helsinki and haan 2011 fda inspections. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations ( mdrs ), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that 29 table of contents would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a publicly available correction and removal report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda, other international regulatory agencies and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our devices. furthermore, the submission of these reports have been and could be used by competitors against us in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions, cancel orders or adversely affect our reputation. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. our manufacture, distribution, installation and service of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. obtaining licenses and certifications may be time consuming, expensive and uncertain. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. the fda and the ftc also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are adequate and reasonable scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including warning letters, and may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with fda, ftc and other applicable u.s. regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations by governmental authorities or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; 30 table of contents the inability to sell our products; difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and civil fines and criminal prosecutions. other applicable u.s. regulations . as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information that we receive, including hipaa, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, hipaa was amended by the hitech act, enacted as part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. the hitech act significantly increases the civil money penalties for violations of patient privacy rights protected under hipaa. furthermore, business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers who receive or have access to patient health information. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that may flow to us as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. compliance with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products may be costly, and failure to comply may result in significant penalties regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the united states vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the united states. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. marketing a medical device internationally . in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, expensive and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the inclusion of significant limitations on the indicated uses of a product, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the medical device directive. this conformity to the medical device directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification 31 table of contents body, called a notified body. once clearance is obtained and the ce mark is affixed to the device, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive. by affixing the ce mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept ce mark standards. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive, we would lose our right to affix the ce mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eu/eea/switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the ce mark. significant revisions to some of the applicable regulations governing requirements for medical devices in the eu/eea/switzerland went into effect in march 2010. these revisions have introduced additional uncertainty into the marketing authorization process for medical devices in europe. until medical device manufacturers and european regulatory agencies, including notified bodies and competent authorities, (governmental agencies to whom the legislator has delegated the capacity to enforce the medical devices directive) have greater experience with interpreting and applying the revised regulations, we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers facilities in order to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with international regulatory authorities, including reports required by international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not timely filed, regulators may impose sanctions, including temporarily suspend our market authorizations or ce mark, and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities internationally, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. manufacturing and selling a device internationally . we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations by governmental authorities; fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions; increased difficulty in obtaining required approvals in foreign countries; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; 32 table of contents seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; and the inability to sell our products in or to import our products into such countries. other applicable international regulations. we are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. particularly within the eu/eea/switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. data protection authorities from the different member states of the eu may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and timely, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable u.s. laws, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with eu/eea/switzerland data protection rules. failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the eu/eea/switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. new data protection legislation is expected to be enacted by the eu commission in january 2013, which will entail substantial changes to the current legal framework, some stricter than before, some less strict. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. the affordable care act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the affordable care act, many of the provisions of which will go into effect in 2012 through 2014. while we are continuing to evaluate the affordable care act, it could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the new law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems products, starting in 2013. the congressional budget office estimates that the total cost to the medical device industry could exceed $30 billion over ten years. this tax may put increased pressure on medical device manufacturers and purchasers, and may lead our customers to reduce their orders for products we produce or to request that we reduce the prices we charge for our products in order to offset the tax. other elements of the affordable care act, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals (the physician payment sunshine act ), could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals will have on our customer purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government role in the u.s. healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. 33 table of contents changes to radiation oncology and other reimbursements and changes in insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to restrain individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs they bear are lower, particularly in the medical diagnostic portion of our business. third party payors have also increased utilitization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. furthermore, there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers for procedures using our products that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by cms to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for radiation therapy proposed by cms. from time to time, cms and third party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. if comparative effectiveness studies are not available, or if available studies show that other cancer treatments are more effective than radiotherapy or radiosurgery, reimbursement rates for radiotherapy or radiosurgery could be reduced. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we provide in foreign markets. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, and the 34 table of contents effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast volatility. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be harmed. in addition, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. even though our international sales are mostly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. the volatility of the u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, some of which may have cost structures based in other currencies, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic instability or concerns about the downgrade and levels of sovereign debt, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. for example, the value of the euro against the u.s. dollar has been impacted by the sovereign debt and banking crises in greece, spain, and other european countries. furthermore, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until such time as stable exchange rates are established. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business laws and ethical rules governing interactions with healthcare providers . the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. violating anti-kickback and false claims laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several recently enacted state and federal laws, including the laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act, now require, among other things, extensive tracking and maintenance of databases regarding the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. these 35 table of contents laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certain payments to healthcare providers. failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. anti-corruption laws and regulations . we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011, and the new law on the fundamentals of health protection in the russian federation, with a significant anti-corruption intent and effective since january 2012. in general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anticorruption laws and their enforcement. any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international 2010 corruption perceptions index measured the degree to which public sector corruption is perceived to exist in 178 countries around the world, and found that nearly three quarters of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below five, on a scale from 10 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigate and protect against corruption risks could be quite costly. in addition, failure by us or our agents or distributors to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets and could adversely affect our business. this notwithstanding, we will inevitably do more business, directly and potentially indirectly in countries, where the public sector is perceived to be more or highly corrupt and be engaging in business in more countries perceived to be more or highly corrupt. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, from time to time, we may conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our sip products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists to the intended 36 table of contents or unintended recipient of the delivery. our medical products operate within our customers facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle product liability claims against us, regardless of their actual merit. if a product liability action were finally determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including the possibility of punitive damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments, even ones that do not involve our products, could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and to seek other methods of treatment. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation of radiation therapy, medical devices or the healthcare industry in general, and adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. both adverse publicity and increased regulatory activities could negatively impact our business and results of operations. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and accruing losses under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ( gaap ). we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may also prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, we could have to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software. new competitors may enter our markets, and we have encountered new competitors as we have entered new markets such as radiosurgery, volumetric 37 table of contents modulated arc therapy and proton therapy. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. the shift in the proportion of sales within our international region towards emerging market countries , which typically have purchased less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries and which usually have stiffer price competition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. new competitors may also delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our net orders. in x-ray imaging components and subsystems, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers who compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. as a result, we must have an advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. in our sip business, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states. the market for our sip products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fragmented. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, clinically proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of technologies such as obi for igrt and our motion management technologies. in each of our business segments, existing competitors actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. 38 table of contents open architecture is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to achieve this as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training and education to use them competently and safely requirements made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) making our software products easier to use and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. we have emphasized an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems, however, that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with the other company products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, and in either case our competitive position would be harmed if we are not able to do so we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. 39 table of contents we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. for example, we are currently involved in a patent infringement lawsuit relating to our real-time position management technology. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. furthermore, even if a third party rights holder is willing to license its rights to us, the amounts we might be required to pay under the associated royalty or license agreement could be significant. the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators; transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glassframes and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more 40 table of contents replacement suppliers. this may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have insurance to protect against business interruption loss, this insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. furthermore, some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead and copper for oncology systems and sip; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray tubes, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for vpt. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted and prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules will require investigative efforts, which will cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. as customers consolidate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity. as a result, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen, as orders increase in size and require more customer approvals. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our net orders to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in net orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. 41 table of contents we sell our x-ray products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, and a reduction in business or inability to properly forecast sales by one or more of these customers could reduce our sales we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors with in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations. if these customers manufacture a greater percentage of their components in-house or otherwise lower external sourcing costs, we could experience reduction in purchasing volume by, or loss of, one or more of these customers. such a reduction or loss could have a material adverse effect on our x-ray products business. in addition, economic uncertainties over the past few years and, in japan, the power outages, facility closures and other effects of the 2011 tsunami, have made it difficult for our oem customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. such economic uncertainties and natural disasters have previously impacted our x-ray products business with inventory reduction efforts and slowdowns in sales at some of these customers. similar inventory adjustments and slowdowns in sales could occur in the future. our agreements for x-ray components may contain purchasing estimates that are based on our customers historical purchasing patterns, and actual purchasing volumes under the agreements may vary significantly from these estimates. orders for our security and inspection products could be unpredictable our sip business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications. we generally sell sip products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in the sip business will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. orders for our sip products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or our oem customers in a short time period, and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. because it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery, the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition varies significantly. in addition, our sip business is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to economic conditions, as well as political changes. we have seen customers freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, delay projects, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. as economic growth remains sluggish in various jurisdictions and appears to be deteriorating in others, and as concerns about levels of government employment and government debt continue, we expect that these effects will also continue. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have previously encountered with a large government project. these factors make the timing of orders, sales and revenues in this business more unpredictable and could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of new treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy or 42 table of contents proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy and proton therapy generally, to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and to promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense on their education. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. additionally, if we are unable to retain key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, which also could hurt our business. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer many of our products have a long production cycle and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. if we fail to successfully acquire or integrate new businesses, products and technology, we may not realize expected benefits or may harm our business we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, in fiscal year 2012 we acquired infimed, a supplier of hardware and software for processing diagnostic x-ray images and calypso, a supplier of specialized products and software for real-time tumor tracking and motion management during radiosurgery and radiotherapy. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. 43 table of contents integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our expenses related to research and development, either of which could impact our results of operations. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. even if we do so, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies, growth or benefits we expected. if we decide to sell assets or a business, as we did in fiscal year 2008 with the scientific research instruments business ( research instruments ) that we acquired as part of our acquisition of accel instruments gmbh ( accel, which has since changed its name to varian medical systems particle therapy gmbh), it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. additionally, we may be required to dispose of a business at a lower price or on less advantageous terms, or to recognize greater losses, than we had anticipated. we account for our acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. under this method, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and in-process research and development costs based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as proton therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins than existing products. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we work with distributors for sales in some territories, and losing them could harm our revenues in that territory we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors, including siemens, for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales in these territories and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. 44 table of contents fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly net orders, revenues, and margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including net orders, revenues and margins, from period to period. drivers of orders include timing of announcement of and introduction of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles even further. when orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. once orders are received, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due, for example, to an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed, cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters or port strikes; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; for proton therapy systems, failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our quarterly operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors pricing or discount levels; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our international region as a whole, by regions within the overall region, as well as by individual countries (notably those in emerging markets); fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; 45 table of contents disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our x-ray products; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which are presently below the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products and particularly prior to completion because the associated revenues are being accounted for in accordance with the zero profit, percentage-of-completion method. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our net orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, net orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit or reviews conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our net orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our net orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. high levels of order cancellation or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce the quarterly net orders and backlog and also affect the level of future revenues. accordingly, we cannot be sure if or when orders will mature into revenues. our net orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. the financial results of our varian particle therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable the development of our vpt business enables us to offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. our success in this area will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. however, this technology has not been and future developments may not be adopted as quickly as others. since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more of our time and uses more of our resources. due to the size and complexity of proton therapy projects, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years. as a result, the timing of these projects, and therefore our operating results for this business, may vary significantly from period to period. in addition, due its relatively large scale, the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. the worldwide economic downturn resulted in a contraction in credit markets. this has made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request that we participate in financing arrangements (such as we recently did for the scripps proton therapy center) or make payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could impact our operating results. changes in 46 table of contents reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments, or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for hospital based proton therapy centers in the united states proposed by cms, can affect growth or demand for our vpt products and services. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of vpt business for the foreseeable future. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large, an order in one fiscal period (or the cancellation of an order as a result of bid challenge or otherwise) will cause our net orders to vary significantly, making comparisons between fiscal periods more difficult. in addition, many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of vpt that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. moreover, vpt business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers are requesting that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project, as well as in some situations participate in or provide project financing for the project. since the cost of each proton therapy center project will often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. this and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a revolving credit facility that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. 47 table of contents changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the fasb, american institute of certified public accountants, the public company accounting oversight board, the securities and exchange commission and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. currently, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and proton therapy commissioning contracts and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our sip business under contract accounting rules, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply contract accounting rules to other businesses in the future. under contract accounting rules, the use of the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, estimates which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. for example, revenues recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. in circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. recognizing revenues using the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin, as we are doing with the revenues associated with the scripps proton therapy center lowers our gross margins and makes it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. in addition, if we were to recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under either the completed contract method or outside of contract accounting rules altogether, we would defer revenue until a contract is completed or substantially completed. this may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. 48 table of contents future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted a directive that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in some of our products sold there. this directive, along with another that requires material disclosure information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial results from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. we are currently involved in various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years with interim motions or judgments subject to multiple levels of review (such as appeals or rehearings) before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their actual merit. if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. as a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may participate in project financing or offer extended payment terms, which may adversely affect our financial results we have provided financing for the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center, and we may be requested to provide financing to other potential vpt customers in the future. providing such financing could adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide assurance that a center will be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to provide incremental revenue to us, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at maturity. in addition, in connection with our financing of the scripps proton therapy center, we cannot provide any assurance that that any portion of our loan commitment can be syndicated to third parties by orix capital markets llc, the agent for the lenders, or that the loan facility can be successfully refinanced upon the maturity of the loan, which has a maximum term of six years. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off its debts and if we cannot recover the amounts due us from the sale of any collateral, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the loan, which would adversely affect our financial results. in addition, in some circumstances we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in our other businesses. many of the areas where we offer such longer or extended payment terms have under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. as of september 28, 2012, customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately three 49 table of contents percent of our accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, longer or extended payment terms could impact the timing of our revenue recognition, and they have in the past and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relations. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. moreover, we manufacture and sell products that allow our customers to store confidential information about their patients. while we have implemented security measures to protect our systems from unauthorized access, these measures do not secure our customers equipment or any information stored in our customers systems or at their locations. a breach of network security and systems or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, our customers stored information could have serious negative consequences for our business, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers damaged manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. even if we are able to quickly respond to a disaster, the ongoing effects of the disaster could create some uncertainty in the operations of our businesses, such as occurred following the march 2011 tsunami in japan. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, 50 table of contents strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as the swine flu, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. we work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations, such as iraq, libya, and mexico, where the country or location and surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues; war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. in those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by cptc, the obligor under the loan facility in which we are participating to finance the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the economic downturn of 2008 and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency sales transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to thirteen months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. 83 table of contents the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 28, 2012 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 19.5 $ 0.9652 canadian dollar 7.0 0.9851 danish krone 2.2 5.8046 euro 283.3 0.7763 indian rupee 3.9 53.0270 japanese yen 83.9 77.6353 norwegian krone 3.3 5.7467 swiss franc 69.1 0.9401 totals $ 403.1 $ 69.1 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and short-term borrowings. our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents and a short-term investment as of september 28, 2012. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 28, 2012 totaled $705 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.28%. at september 28, 2012, our short-term investment represented a loan of $49.7 million to cptc, which bears interest at libor plus 6.25% per annum with a minimum interest rate of 8.25% per annum. the 2012 credit facility allows us to borrow up to a maximum amount of $300 million. we collateralized a portion of the 2012 credit facility with a pledge of 65% of the voting shares that we hold in varian medical systems nederland b.v., a wholly-owned subsidiary. borrowings under the 2012 credit facility accrue interest based on (i) a eurodollar rate plus a margin or (ii) a base rate of the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, (b) bofa announced prime rate or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1%, plus a margin. in addition, the sumitomo credit facility allows vms kk to borrow up to a maximum amount of 3 billion japanese yen. borrowings under the sumitomo credit facility accrue interest based on the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our credit facilities. as of september 28, 2012, $155 million was outstanding under our credit facilities with a weighted average interest rate of 1.47%. if the amount outstanding under our credit facilities remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased (due to changes in libor, the federal funds rate, bofa prime rate or the bank of japan basic loan rate) by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $1.6 million. see a detailed discussion of our credit facilities in item 2, md&amp;a liquidity and capital resources. in addition, we had $6.3 million of long-term debt (including the current maturities of long-term debt) outstanding at september 28, 2012 that carried at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.7% with principal payments due in two years. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate of our investment portfolio, short-term borrowings or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. 84 table of contents the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and long term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 704.6 $ $ $ $ $ $ 704.6 average interest rate(1) 0.28 % 0.28 % short-term investment(2) $ 49.7 $ $ $ $ $ $ 49.7 average interest rate(1) 8.25 % 8.25 % liabilities: long-term debt $ $ 6.3 $ $ $ $ $ 6.3 average interest rate 6.70 % 6.70 % short-term borrowings under credit facility $ 155.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 155.0 average interest rate(1) 1.47 % 1.47 % (1) represents interest rates effective as of september 28, 2012. (2) represents amount loaned to cptc under a loan facility. see note 16, variable interest entity of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion. the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents (93% of which was held abroad at september 28, 2012 and could be subject to additional taxation if it were repatriated to the united states) and the estimated fair value of our short-term borrowings under our credit facilities approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. the fair value of our loan to cptc was $49.7 million at september 28, 2012, which was estimated based on the income approach by using the discounted cash flow model with key assumptions that include discount rates corresponding to the terms and risks associated with the loan to cptc. in addition, the company does not increase the fair value above its par value as orix, the loan agent, has the option to purchase this loan from the company under the original terms and conditions at par value. the fair value of our long-term debt was estimated to be $6.8 million at september 28, 2012. the estimated fair value of long-term debt was based on the then-current rates available to us for debt of similar terms and remaining maturities and also took into consideration default and credit risk. we determined the estimated fair value by using available market information and commonly accepted valuation methodologies. the use of different assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 85 table of contentsrisk factors 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. 65 credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by cptc, the obligor under the loan facility in which we are participating to finance the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the economic downturn of 2008 and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over continued economic instability, including the sovereign debt and banking crises in europe, could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact affect our liquidity. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency sales transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to thirteen months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 27, 2013 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 21.9 $ 1.0746 british pound 18.6 0.62 canadian dollar 2.2 1.0311 euro 228.6 0.7391 indian rupee 4.7 63.03 japanese yen 147.9 98.852 norwegian krone 3.3 2.8 6.0064 swiss franc 70.9 0.9045 swedish krone 3.1 6.4192 totals $ 428.1 $ 75.9 66 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and short-term borrowings. our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents and a short-term investment as of september 27, 2013. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 27, 2013 totaled $1.1 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 0.20%. at september 27, 2013, our short-term investment represented a loan of $62.7 million (including accrued interest) to cptc, which bears interest at libor plus 6.25% per annum with a minimum interest rate of 8.25% per annum. the 2013 credit facility, which includes the 2013 revolving credit facility and the 2013 term loan facility, allows us to borrow up to a maximum amount of $300 million under the 2013 revolving credit facility and $500 million under the 2013 term loan facility. we secured a portion of the 2013 credit facility with a pledge of 65% of the voting shares that we hold in varian medical systems nederland b.v., a wholly-owned subsidiary. borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility accrue interest either (i) based on a eurodollar rate, as defined in the credit agreement (the eurodollar rate ), plus a margin of 1.00% to 1.25% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of up to 0.25% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility accrue interest either (i) based on the eurodollar rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.50% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.50% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. in addition, the sumitomo credit facility allows vms kk to borrow up to a maximum amount of 3 billion japanese yen. borrowings under the sumitomo credit facility accrue interest based on the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our revolving credit facility and term loan facility. as of september 27, 2013, there was no amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility. at september 27, 2013, borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility totaled $500 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.31%. if the amount outstanding under our term loan facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $5 million. see a detailed discussion of our credit facilities in md&a liquidity and capital resources. in addition, we had $6.3 million of an unsecured term loan outstanding at september 27, 2013 that carried at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.7% with principal payments due in fiscal year 2014. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate of our investment portfolio, short-term borrowings or long-term debt, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and long term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,117.9 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,117.9 average interest rate (1) 0.20 % 0.20 % short-term investment (2) $ 62.7 $ $ $ $ $ $ 62.7 average interest rate (1) 8.25 % 8.25 % liabilities: long-term debt (including current maturities) $ 56.3 $ 50.0 $ 50.0 $ 50.0 $ 300.0 $ $ 506.3 average interest rate (1) 1.91 % 1.31 % 1.31 % 1.31 % 1.31 % 1.44 % (1) represents interest rates effective as of september 27, 2013. (2) represents amount loaned to cptc, including accrued interest, under a loan facility. see note 15, variable interest entity of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion. the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents (68% of which was held abroad at september 27, 2013 and could be subject to additional taxation if it were repatriated to the united states) and the estimated fair value of our unsecured term loan approximated the principal amounts reflected above based on the maturities of these financial instruments. 67 the estimated fair value of our term loan payable in fiscal year 2018, at september 27, 2013, approximates its carrying value because the term loan is carried at a market observable interest rate that resets periodically. the fair value of our loan to cptc was $62.7 million at september 27, 2013, which was estimated based on the income approach by using the discounted cash flow model with key assumptions that include discount rates corresponding to the terms and risks associated with the loan to cptc. in addition, the company does not increase the fair value above its par value as orix, the loan agent, has the option to purchase this loan from the company under the original terms and conditions at par value. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 68risk factors 20 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant that are not listed below may also adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. if our products and product lines fail to continue to meet customer demands, our products may become less useful or obsolete and our operating results will suffer we believe that imrt, including volumetric modulated arc therapy, and igrt have become accepted standards for treatment in the radiation oncology market. demand for our imrt and igrt products have been the drivers for our gross orders and revenues in oncology systems and, because of the significance of oncology systems, in our business in general. we have introduced products such as truebeam, a line of linear accelerators for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and unique, a less complex, low-energy linear accelerator for the more price sensitive emerging markets, to meet the evolving needs of our imrt and igrt customers. we believe truebeam is a valuable tool for clinicians in the fight against cancer and will stimulate faster replacement of older systems in our installed base. we also believe that our rapidarc products for volumetric modulated arc therapy are a significant advance in imrt treatments and can help drive longer term demand for our linear accelerators and imrt- and igrt-related products. orders for these products and products lines have contributed greatly to our orders and revenue growth and are keys to our future success. if our customers do not purchase these products or if future studies call into question the effectiveness of these or our other imrt or igrt products (including other volumetric modulated arc therapy products) or show negative side effects, or if other more effective technologies are introduced, our gross orders, revenues and financial results could suffer. as more institutions buy or upgrade to achieve imrt and igrt capabilities, the market for these products (including volumetric modulated arc therapy products) may become saturated. alternatively, the marketplace may conclude that functions and features of our products should no longer be an element of a generally accepted diagnostic or treatment regimen. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and they may become less useful or obsolete. our imaging components business sells products primarily to a small number of imaging system oem customers who use our products in their medical diagnostic, security and industrial imaging systems. to succeed, we must provide products that meet customer demands for product quality, superior technology and product performance at a competitive cost. if we are unable to continue to innovate our imaging components and anticipate our customers' demands in the areas of cost, quality, technology and performance, then our customers may purchase from other imaging component manufacturers (including the in-house operations of some of these customers), which would negatively impact this business. in our oncology systems and imaging components businesses, as well as in our other product lines, we may be unable to accurately anticipate changes in our markets and the direction of technological innovation and demands of our customers. our competitors may develop products or processes that are superior to, or more cost efficient than, what we can then offer. if this occurs, the market for our products may be adversely affected and our products may become less useful or obsolete. any development adversely affecting the markets for our products would force us to reduce production volumes or to discontinue manufacturing one or more of our products or product lines and would reduce our revenues and earnings. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products and enhancements to or simplifications of existing product lines rapid change and technological innovation characterize the markets in which we operate. our oncology systems products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products, treatment systems and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing product lines. our oncology systems products, including products such as edge and truebeam, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, if not be superior to, the products of our competitors. our imaging components business must also continually improve products at competitive costs. we are investing in long-term growth initiatives, such as development of our vpt business, and expect that we will need to invest more to develop and commercialize new products and technology for this business. accordingly, our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing, as well as significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part. in addition, because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems, including ours, there is increasing demand for development of a smaller, more compact proton therapy system. other companies currently offer smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems, and our ability to compete with these companies may depend on our ability to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. 20 we may need to spend more time and money than we expect to develop and introduce new products or enhancements and, even if we succeed, they may not be sufficiently profitable that we are able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, and could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty, associated with new products may be proportionately greater than other products, and may therefore adversely affect our gross and operating margins. if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact our success with new products or enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs; prove the feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; appropriately manage our supply chain; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate and compete successfully with competitors. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. new products generally take longer to install than well-established products. because a portion of a product's revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. in addition, even if we succeed in our product introductions, potential customers may not decide to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. more than half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 57%, 57% and 56% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so. we cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to meet our sales, service and support objectives or obligations in these international markets, or recover our investments. for example, we have aligned our resources to support sales and marketing efforts in emerging markets. our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: currency fluctuations; the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in the international region, in particular emerging markets; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; 21 difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country's legal systems; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs (such as the russia-ukraine sanctions) or other restrictions on foreign trade; the longer period in the international region from placement of any order to revenue recognition; any inability to obtain export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international region has represented a larger share of our business. the more we depend on sales in the international region, the more vulnerable we become to these factors. as of september 26, 2014, 97% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, they could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. earnings from our international region are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. a change in the percentage of our total earnings from the international region, a change in the mix of particular tax jurisdictions within the international region, or a change in currency exchange rates, could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. also, we are not currently taxed in the united states on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or u.s. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed or actually remitted to the united states, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected. in addition, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the interpretation of tax laws or other changes beyond our control could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. our results have been and may continue to be affected by continuing worldwide economic instability since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by a number of economic and political factors, including most recently the russia-ukraine sanctions. in many markets, these conditions have shrunk capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and more time consuming to obtain, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and reduced their confidence. this, in turn, has caused our customers to be more cautious with, and sometimes freeze, delay or dramatically reduce, purchases and capital project expenditures. some countries have adopted and may in the future adopt austerity or stimulus programs that could positively or negatively affect our results from period to period, making it difficult for investors to compare our financial results. an uncertain economic environment may also disrupt supply or affect our service business, as customers' constrained budgets may result in pricing pressure, extended warranty provisions and even cancellation of service contracts. in addition, concerns over continued economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. historically, our business has felt the effects of market trends later than other sectors in the healthcare industry, such as diagnostic radiology, and we may experience the effects of any economic recovery later than others in the healthcare industry. a continued weak or deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 22 we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could prevent us from distributing our products, require us to recall our products and result in significant penalties our products and those of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the united states. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. furthermore, public media reports on misadministrations of radiotherapy in patients and focus on the role of the fda in regulating medical devices has led to increased scrutiny of medical device companies and an increased likelihood of enforcement actions. u.s. laws governing marketing a medical device . in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, the nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ) and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval ( pma ) before it can market or sell those products in the united states. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. although manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, we cannot assure you that the fda will agree with our decisions not to seek additional approvals or clearances for particular modifications to our products or that we will be successful in obtaining new 510(k) clearances for modifications. obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and the pma process is more complex than the 510(k) clearance process. we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for the product. if we were unable to obtain required fda clearance or approval for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business could suffer. in the past, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. however, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the pma approval process. if we were required to use the pma process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, such as radiosurgery and opportunities that require clinical trials, we become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations, including fda and foreign rules and regulations that are applicable to the clinical trial process and protection of study subjects. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. quality systems . our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the fda's qsr, as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections issues reports, known as form fda 483 reports when the fda believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if observations from the fda issued on form fda 483 reports are not addressed and/or corrective action taken in a timely manner and to the fda's satisfaction, the fda may issue a warning letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. similarly, if a warning letter were issued, prompt corrective action to come into compliance would be required. failure to respond timely to form fda 483 observations, a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities, denial of importation rights to the u.s. for products manufactured in overseas locations, adverse publicity and criminal and civil fines. the expense and costs of any corrective actions that we may take, which may include products recalls, correction and removal of products from customer sites and/or changes to our product manufacturing and quality systems, could adversely impact our financial results and may also divert management resources, attention and time. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. 23 in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations ( mdrs ), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed timely, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a publicly available correction and removal report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda, other international regulatory agencies and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our devices. furthermore, the submission of these reports have been and could be used by competitors against us in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions, cancel orders or adversely affect our reputation. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. our manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. obtaining licenses and certifications may be time consuming, expensive and uncertain. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. the fda and the ftc also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are adequate and reasonable scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including warning letters, and may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with fda, ftc and other applicable u.s. regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations by governmental authorities or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; the inability to sell our products; difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and civil fines and criminal prosecutions. other applicable u.s. regulations . as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information that we receive, including the hipaa, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. 24 the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, national and state laws regulate privacy and may regulate our use of data. furthermore, hipaa was amended by the hitech act to provide that business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers who receive or have access to patient health information. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that may flow to us as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. compliance with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products may be costly, and failure to comply may result in significant penalties regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the united states vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the united states. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. marketing a medical device internationally . in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, expensive and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the inclusion of significant limitations on the indicated uses of a product, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the medical device directive. this conformity to the medical device directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body. once the ce mark is affixed, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive. by affixing the ce mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept ce mark standards. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive, we would lose our right to affix the ce mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eu/eea/switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the ce mark. significant revisions to some of the applicable regulations governing requirements for medical devices in the eu/eea/switzerland went into effect in march 2010. these revisions have introduced additional uncertainty into the marketing authorization process for medical devices in europe. until medical device manufacturers and european regulatory agencies, including notified bodies and competent authorities, (governmental agencies to whom the legislator has delegated the capacity to enforce the medical devices directive) have greater experience with interpreting and applying the revised regulations, we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities in order to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with international regulatory authorities, including reports required by international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not timely filed, regulators may impose sanctions, including temporarily suspend our market authorizations or ce mark, and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities internationally, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. 25 manufacturing and selling a device internationally . we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations by governmental authorities; fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions; increased difficulty in obtaining required approvals in foreign countries; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; and the inability to sell our products in or to import our products into such countries. other applicable international regulations. we are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. particularly within the eu/eea/switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. data protection authorities from the different member states of the eu may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and timely, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable u.s. laws, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with eu/eea/switzerland data protection rules. failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the eu/eea/switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. new data protection legislation that will entail substantial changes to the current legal framework, some stricter than before, some less strict, is expected to be enacted by the eu commission in 2015. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. the affordable care act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the affordable care act. while we are continuing to evaluate the affordable care act, it could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems and vpt products, which started january 1, 2013. the congressional budget office estimates that the total cost to the medical device industry could exceed $30 billion over ten years. this tax has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our gross margin. 26 in addition, discussions relating to the affordable care act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and accountable care organizations ( acos ). acos and bundled payment programs were established by the affordable care act to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. acos and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. however, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and bundled reimbursement payments. these and other elements of the affordable care act, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals (the physician payment sunshine act ), could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. we believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy, in the united states is being adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the affordable care act and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenue from quarter-to-quarter. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. changes to radiation oncology and other reimbursements and changes in insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to restrain individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs they bear are lower, particularly in the medical diagnostic portion of our business. third party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. furthermore, there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers for procedures using our products that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by cms to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. in addition, discussions relating to the affordable care act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and acos. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we provide in foreign markets. 27 while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, and the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast volatility. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. furthermore, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (typically up to the next twelve month period). therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. even though our international sales are mostly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. the volatility of the u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years, and in particular in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, some of which may have cost structures based in other currencies, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability or concerns about the downgrade and levels of sovereign debt, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. furthermore, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until such time as stable exchange rates are established. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business laws and ethical rules governing interactions with healthcare providers . the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. violating anti-kickback and false claims laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several recently enacted state and federal laws, including the laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act, now require, among other things, extensive tracking and maintenance of databases regarding the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. these laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certain payments to healthcare providers. failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 28 anti-corruption laws and regulations . we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011, and the law on the fundamentals of health protection in the russian federation, with a significant anti-corruption intent and effective since january 2012. in general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anticorruption laws and their enforcement, and the healthcare industry and medical equipment manufacturers have been particular targets of these investigation and enforcement efforts. any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international's 2013 corruption perceptions index measured the degree to which public sector corruption is perceived to exist in nearly 180 countries around the world, and found that nearly three quarters of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigate and protect against corruption risks could be quite costly. in addition, failure by us or our agents or distributors to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets and could adversely affect our business. this notwithstanding, we will inevitably do more business, directly and potentially indirectly in countries, where the public sector is perceived to be more or highly corrupt and be engaging in business in more countries perceived to be more or highly corrupt. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. competition laws . due to our competitive position in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of increased importance to us. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions, and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. in addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come in contact with radiation (for example, when our security and inspection products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnosing of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists to the intended or unintended recipient of the delivery. our medical products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. 29 product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle product liability claims against us, regardless of their actual merit. if a product liability action were finally determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including the possibility of punitive damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments, even ones that do not involve our products, could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation of radiation therapy, radiosurgery, medical devices or the healthcare industry in general, and adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. both adverse publicity and increased regulatory activities could negatively impact our business and results of operations. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons), we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and accruing losses under gaap. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may also prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, we could have to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software. new competitors may enter our markets, and we have encountered new competitors as we have entered new markets such as radiosurgery, volumetric modulated arc therapy and proton therapy. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. the shift in the proportion of sales within our international region towards emerging market countries, which typically have purchased less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries and which usually have stiffer price competition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. new competitors may also delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders. in imaging components, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers who compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. as a result, we must have an advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. with our security and inspection products, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states. the market for our x-ray tube and flat panel products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fragmented. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of technologies such as our on-board imager ( obi ) for igrt and our motion management technologies. 30 in each of our business segments, existing competitors' actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. open architecture is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to achieve this as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and require a high level of training and education to use them competently and safely requirements made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) making our software products easier to use and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. we have emphasized an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and volumetric modulated arc therapy and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems, however, that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with the other company products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, and in either case our competitive position would be harmed if we are not able to do so we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. an unfavorable outcome in any such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. 31 we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. for example, we recently paid $35.6 million to settle a patent infringement lawsuit relating to our real-time position management technology initiated in 2007 by the university of pittsburgh. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if actual liabilities significantly exceed our estimates regarding potential liabilities, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. furthermore, a third party claiming infringement may not be willing to license its rights to us, and even if a third party rights holder is willing to do so, the amounts we might be required to pay under the associated royalty or license agreement could be significant. as such, we could decide to alter our business strategy or voluntarily cease the allegedly infringing actions rather than face litigation or pa y a royalty, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial results from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. we are currently involved in various legal proceedings and claims, including product liability and intellectual property claims, that have not yet been fully resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years with interim motions or judgments subject to multiple levels of review (such as appeals or rehearings) before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their actual merit. if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. 32 the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators; transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glass frames and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have insurance to protect against business interruption loss, this insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. furthermore, some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for oncology systems and security and inspection products; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray tubes, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for vpt. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. in addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. as customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase, as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. as a result, as orders increase in size and require more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in gross orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. 33 we sell our imaging components to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, and a reduction in business or inability to properly forecast sales by one or more of these customers could reduce our sales we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors with in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations. if these customers manufacture a greater percentage of their components in-house or otherwise lower external sourcing costs, we could experience reduction in purchasing volume by, or loss of, one or more of these customers. such a reduction or loss could have a material adverse effect on our imaging components business. in addition, economic uncertainties over the past few years and, in japan, the power outages, facility closures and other effects of the 2011 tsunami, have made it difficult for our oem customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. such economic uncertainties and natural disasters, as well as other factors, have previously impacted our imaging components business with inventory reduction efforts and slowdowns in sales at some of these customers. similar inventory adjustments and slowdowns in sales could occur in the future. our agreements for imaging components may contain purchasing estimates that are based on our customers' historical purchasing patterns, and actual purchasing volumes under the agreements may vary significantly from these estimates. orders for our security and inspection products tend to be unpredictable our imaging components business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications, as well as industrial applications. we generally sell security and inspection products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in our security and inspection products will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. orders for our security and inspection products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or our oem customers in a short time period, and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. because it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery, the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition varies significantly. in addition, demand for our security and inspection products is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to economic conditions, as well as political changes. we have seen customers freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, delay projects, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. as economic growth remains sluggish in various jurisdictions and appears to be deteriorating in others, and as concerns about levels of government employment and government debt continue, we expect that these effects will also continue. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have previously encountered with a large government project. these factors make the timing of orders, sales and revenues in this business more unpredictable and could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy and proton therapy generally, to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and to promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense on their education. 34 our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. additionally, if we are unable to retain key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, which also could hurt our business. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies, which could harm our business we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, during fiscal year 2014, we acquired certain assets of velocity and transpire to expand our existing software product offerings. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our expenses related to research and development, either of which could impact our results of operations. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them. it is also possible that an acquisition could increase our risk of litigation, as a third party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. even if we do so, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies, growth or benefits we expected. if we decide to sell assets or a business, as we did in fiscal year 2008 with the scientific research instruments business that we acquired as part of our acquisition of accel gmbh, it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. we may be required to dispose of a business at a lower price or on less advantageous terms, or to recognize greater losses, than we had anticipated. if we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. additionally, we have investments in privately held companies that are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. these investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize. if these companies do not succeed, we could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. for example, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2014, we recorded a charge relating to the impairment of a portion of a privately-held equity investment when we became aware of certain indicators of impairment. 35 we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as particle therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins than existing products. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we work with distributors for sales in some territories, and losing them could harm our revenues in that territory we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors, including siemens ag, for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales in these territories and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, and margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues and margins, from period to period. drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. when orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the net order amounts) and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due, for example, to an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed, cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our quarterly operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; 36 changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our international region as a whole, by regions within the overall region, as well as by individual countries (notably those in emerging markets); fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our imaging components; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which are presently below the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products and particularly prior to completion because the associated revenues are being accounted for in accordance with the zero profit, percentage-of-completion method. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. we report on a quarterly and annual basis our gross orders and backlog. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. order cancellation or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results. our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. the financial results of our varian particle therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable the development of our vpt business enables us to offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. our success in this area will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. however, this technology has not been widely adopted and future developments may not be adopted as quickly as others. since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more of our time and uses more of our resources. many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of vpt that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. the worldwide economic downturn resulted in a contraction in credit markets. this has made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request that we participate in financing arrangements (such as we did for the scripps proton therapy center) or make payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could impact our operating results. challenges or delays in obtaining financing or commencing treatment could also impact the viability of one or more of our customers as a going concern. changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments, or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for hospital based proton therapy centers in the united states by cms, can affect growth or demand for our vpt products and services. 37 we compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. if we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, there is a risk we will lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large and complex, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years, and an order in one fiscal period (or the cancellation of an order as a result of bid challenge or otherwise) will cause our gross orders to vary significantly, making comparisons between fiscal periods more difficult. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of vpt's business for the foreseeable future. in instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which could adversely impact our operating results. our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the results of vpt's business. if we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. it is possible that vpt could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, revenue growth rates, and operating margins. these factors could adversely impact vpt's ability to meet its projected results, which could cause a portion or all of the goodwill of vpt to become impaired. as of september 26, 2014, the goodwill of vpt was $56.3 million. if we determine that vpt's goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in such period. our vpt business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability vpt's business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project, as well as in some situations participate in or provide project financing for the project. since the cost of each proton therapy center project will often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. these and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. there is an increasing threat of information security attacks that pose risk to companies, including varian. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. moreover, we manufacture and sell products that rely upon software systems to operate properly that allow our customers to store confidential information about their patients. while we have implemented security measures to protect our systems from unauthorized access, these measures cannot fully secure our customers' equipment or any information stored in our customers' systems or at their locations. a breach of network security and systems or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, disruption of, or access by third parties to, our customers' stored information or to treatment delivery instructions could have serious negative consequences for our business, including possible injury to patients, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 38 we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a credit facility with debt outstanding that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), american institute of certified public accountants, the sec and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. currently, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and proton therapy commissioning contracts and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our imaging components business under contract accounting rules, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply contract accounting rules to other businesses in the future. under contract accounting rules, the use of the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, estimates which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. for example, revenues recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. in circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. recognizing revenues using the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin, as we had done with the revenues associated with the scripps proton therapy center in the earlier stages of the project lowers our gross margins and makes it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. in addition, if we were to recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under either the completed contract method or outside of contract accounting rules altogether, we would defer revenue until a contract is completed or substantially completed. this may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. 39 as a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may participate in project financing or offer extended payment terms, which may adversely affect our financial results we have provided financing for the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center, and we may provide or be requested to provide financing to other potential vpt customers in the future. providing such financing could adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide assurance that a center will be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to facilitate a refinancing, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at maturity. in addition, in connection with our financing of the scripps proton therapy center, we cannot provide any assurance that any additional portion of our loan can be syndicated to third parties, or that the loan facility can be successfully refinanced upon the maturity of the loan. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off its debts, and if we cannot recover the amounts due us from the sale of any collateral, we may be required to write off all, or a portion of the loan, which would adversely affect our financial results. in addition, in some circumstances we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in vpt or our other businesses. many of the areas where we offer such longer or extended payment terms have under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. as of september 26, 2014, customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately four percent of our accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. concerns over continued economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, longer or extended payment terms could impact the timing of our revenue recognition, and they have in the past and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. provisions of delaware law and our charter documents could be insufficient to deter a hostile takeover; and actions of activist stockholders could adversely affect our business certain provisions of delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could deter a hostile takeover, while others could be insufficient to deter a hostile takeover. our stockholder rights plan expired in december 2008, and we did not renew it. in addition, in february 2014 our stockholders approved, and we filed an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to declassify our board of directors commencing in 2016. both of these changes reduced our ability to defend against a hostile takeover. the remaining provisions of delaware law and of our charter documents may not be effective in defending against a hostile takeover or attack by an activist stockholder that may not be in the best interest of all of our shareholders, which could distract our management and adversely affect our business. in addition, we may be subject to one or more campaigns by stockholders who desire to increase stockholder value in the short term. any such campaign could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing on our strategic goals, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted a directive that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in some of our products sold there. this directive, along with another that requires material disclosure information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 40 our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers' damaged manufacturing facilities; these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. even if we are able to quickly respond to a disaster, the ongoing effects of the disaster could create some uncertainty in the operations of our businesses, such as occurred following the march 2011 tsunami in japan. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as ebola, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. we work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations where the country or location and surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues; war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. in those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our notes receivable and cptc, the obligor under the loan facility in which we are participating to finance the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the economic downturn of 2008 and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over continued economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia, and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer's country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries' functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency sales transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to thirteen months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar functional currency. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. 69 the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 26, 2014 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 20.1 $ - 1.14 canadian dollar - 9.6 1.12 danish krone 4.3 - 5.87 euro 183.0 - 0.78 hungarian forint 0.8 - 246.31 indian rupee 2.9 - 61.93 japanese yen 53.6 - 109.18 norwegian krone 2.8 - 6.45 swedish krona 8.0 - 7.26 swiss franc - 75.2 0.95 totals $ 275.5 $ 84.8 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments as of september 26, 2014. the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 26, 2014 totaled $849.3 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.22%. at september 26, 2014, our available-for-sale investments represented loans of $75.6 million (including accrued interest) to cptc, which bears interest at the london interbank offer rate ( libor ) plus 7.00% per annum with a minimum interest rate of 9.00% per annum. the cptc loans are classified as available-for-sale securities and carried at fair value. the 2013 credit facility allows us to borrow up to a maximum amount of $500 million under the 2013 term loan facility and $300 million under the 2013 revolving credit facility. borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility accrue interest either (i) based on a eurodollar rate, as defined in the credit agreement (the eurodollar rate ), plus a margin of 1.00% to 1.25% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of up to 0.25% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility accrue interest either (i) based on the eurodollar rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.50% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.50% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. in addition, the sumitomo credit facility allows vms kk to borrow up to a maximum amount of 3 billion japanese yen. borrowings under the sumitomo credit facility accrue interest based on the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin of 0.5% per annum. as of september 26, 2014, there were no outstanding balances under the sumitomo credit facility. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our revolving credit facility and term loan facility. as of september 26, 2014, there was no amount outstanding under our revolving credit facility. at september 26, 2014, borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility totaled $437.5 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.28%. if the amount outstanding under our term loan facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $4.4 million. see a detailed discussion of our credit facilities in md&amp;a liquidity and capital resources. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. 70 the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted average interest rates by year for our cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments and long -term debt. fiscal years (dollars in millions) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total assets: cash and cash equivalents $ 849.3 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 849.3 average interest rate (1) 0.22 % - - - - - 0.22 % available-for-sale investments (2) $ 66.2 $ - $ 9.4 $ - $ - $ - $ 75.6 average interest rate (1) 9 % - 9% - - - 9 % liabilities: long-term debt (including current maturities) $ 50.0 $ 50.0 $ 50.0 $ 287.5 $ - $ - $ 437.5 average interest rate (1) 1.28 % 1.28 % 1.28 % 1.28 % - - 1.28 % (1) represents interest rates effective as of september 26, 2014. (2) represents amount loaned to cptc, including accrued interest, under a loan facility. see note 16, ctpc loans of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion. the estimated fair value of our cash and cash equivalents (97% of which was held abroad at september 26, 2014 and could be subject to additional taxation if it were repatriated to the united states) approximated the principal amounts reflected above because of the short maturity of these instruments. the fair value of our loan to cptc was $75.6 million at september 26, 2014, which was estimated based on the income approach by using the discounted cash flow model with key assumptions that include discount rates corresponding to the terms and risks associated with the loan to cptc. in addition, the company does not increase the fair value above its par value as orix, the loan agent, has the option to purchase this loan from the company under the original terms and conditions at par value. the estimated fair value of our term loan payable in fiscal year 2018, at september 26, 2014, approximated its carrying value because the term loan is carried at a market observable interest rate that resets periodically. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 71risk factors 21 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products and enhancements to or simplifications of existing product lines rapid change and technological innovation characterize the markets in which we operate. our oncology systems products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products (including linear accelerators, accessories, treatment systems and software products) and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing product lines. our oncology systems products, including products such as edge and truebeam, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, if not be superior to, the products of our competitors in order to remain competitive. we are also expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and software-as-a-service ( saas ) solutions. development and introduction of new software platforms and software delivery models, as well as different revenue models, can be highly complex and uncertain, both in our ability to develop and implement such platforms or models and in our customers' acceptance of such platforms or models. our imaging components business, which sells primarily to a small number of imaging system oem customers who use our products in their medical diagnostic, security and industrial imaging systems, must also continually introduce new products at competitive costs while also improving existing products with higher quality, lower costs and increased feature sets. because this business competes in very price sensitive markets with other market players who are much larger and who may have in-house supplier of competing components, our ability to anticipate our customers' demands, innovate and introduce new products at a competitive cost and improve quality, cost and features of our existing products is extremely critical to our success in this business. our failure to do so can and has resulted in loss of customers and adverse impact to our financial performance. with a strong u.s. dollar, our ability to meet our customers' pricing expectations is particularly challenged and can result in erosion of product margin and market share. we are investing in the growth of our particle therapy business, and expect that we will need to invest more to develop and commercialize new products and technology for this business. accordingly, our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing, as well as significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part. in addition, because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems, including ours, there is increasing demand for development of a smaller, more compact proton therapy system. other companies currently offer smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems, and our ability to compete with these companies may depend on our ability to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. we may need to spend more time and money than we expect to develop and introduce new products or enhancements and, even if we succeed, they may not be sufficiently profitable such that we are able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, which could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be proportionately greater than the costs associated with other products, and may therefore disproportionately adversely affect our gross and operating margins. if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact our success with new products or enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to: properly identify customer needs or long-term customer demands; prove the feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; 21 limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; appropriately manage our supply chain; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate, respond to and compete successfully with competitors. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the fda. failure to complete these processes timely and efficiently could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. new products generally take longer to install than well-established products. because a portion of a product's revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. in addition, even if we succeed in our product introductions, potential customers may decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. more than half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 54% , 57% and 56% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. as a result, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so. for example, we have aligned our resources to support sales and marketing efforts in emerging markets. we cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to meet our sales, service and support objectives or obligations in these international markets, or recover our investments. our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: currency fluctuations, such as the strengthening of the u.s. dollar since the end of our fiscal year 2014, which has adversely affected our financial results and caused some customers to delay purchasing decisions or move to in-sourcing supply or migrate to lower cost alternatives or ask for additional discounts; the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in the international region, in particular emerging markets; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country's legal systems; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs (such as the russia-ukraine sanctions) or other restrictions on foreign trade; the longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in the international region; any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; 22 failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international region has represented a larger share of our business. the more we depend on sales in the international region, the more vulnerable we become to these factors. as of october 2, 2015 , approximately 98% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, a portion of this amount could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. earnings from our international region are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. a change in the percentage of our total earnings from the international region, a change in the mix of particular tax jurisdictions within the international region, or a change in currency exchange rates, could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. also, we are not currently taxed in the united states on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or u.s. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed to be or actually are remitted to the united states, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected. in addition, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the interpretation of tax laws or other changes beyond our control could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we provide in foreign markets. for example, since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, the u.s. dollar has strengthened significantly against the euro and japanese yen, which adversely impacted our financial results in fiscal year 2015. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, and the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast volatility. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. furthermore, movement in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (typically up to the next twelve month period). therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. even though our international sales are mostly in local currencies, our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. the volatility of the u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years, and in particular the strengthening of the u.s. dollar since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, some of which may have cost structures based in other currencies, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. in addition, the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates has caused some customers in our imaging components business to delay purchasing decisions or move to in-sourcing supply or migrate to lower cost alternatives or ask for additional discounts. even if the u.s. dollar weakens, these customers may continue using the alternative sources and demand for our products may not increase. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. furthermore, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until such time as stable exchange rates are established. 23 our results have been and may continue to be affected by continuing worldwide economic instability the global economy has been impacted by a number of economic and political factors, including recently the russia-ukraine sanctions. in many markets, these conditions have shrunk capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and more time consuming to obtain, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. this, in turn, has caused our customers to be more cautious with, and sometimes freeze, delay or dramatically reduce, purchases and capital project expenditures. some countries have adopted and may in the future adopt austerity or stimulus programs that could positively or negatively affect our results from period to period, making it difficult for investors to compare our financial results. an uncertain economic environment may also disrupt supply or affect our service business, as customers' constrained budgets may result in pricing pressure, extended warranty provisions and even cancellation of service contracts. in addition, concerns over continued economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. historically, our business has felt the effects of market trends later than other sectors in the healthcare industry, such as diagnostic radiology, and we may experience the effects of any economic recovery later than others in the healthcare industry. a continued weak or deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could prevent us from distributing our products, require us to recall our products and result in significant penalties our products and those of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the united states. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. furthermore, public media reports on misadministrations of radiotherapy in patients and focus on the role of the fda in regulating medical devices has led to increased scrutiny of medical device companies and an increased likelihood of enforcement actions. u.s. laws governing marketing a medical device . in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, the nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ) and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval ( pma ) before it can market or sell those products in the united states. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. although manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, we cannot assure you that the fda will agree with our decisions not to seek additional approvals or clearances for particular modifications to our products or that we will be successful in obtaining new 510(k) clearances for modifications. obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and the pma process is more complex than the 510(k) clearance process. we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for the product. if we were unable to obtain required fda clearance or approval for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business could suffer. in the past, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. however, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the pma approval process. if we were required to use the pma process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, such as radiosurgery and opportunities that require clinical trials, we become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations, including fda and foreign rules and regulations that 24 are applicable to the clinical trial process and protection of study subjects. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. quality systems . our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the fda's qsr, as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections issues reports, known as form fda 483 reports when the fda believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if observations from the fda issued on form fda 483 reports are not addressed and/or corrective action taken in a timely manner and to the fda's satisfaction, the fda may issue a warning letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. similarly, if a warning letter were issued, prompt corrective action to come into compliance would be required. failure to respond timely to form fda 483 observations, a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities, denial of importation rights to the u.s. for products manufactured in overseas locations, adverse publicity and criminal and civil fines. the expense and costs of any corrective actions that we may take, which may include products recalls, correction and removal of products from customer sites and/or changes to our product manufacturing and quality systems, could adversely impact our financial results and may also divert management resources, attention and time. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations ( mdrs ), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed on a timely basis, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a publicly available correction and removal report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda, other international regulatory agencies and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our devices. furthermore, the submission of these reports have been and could be used against us by competitors in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions, cancel orders or adversely affect our reputation. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. our manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. obtaining licenses and certifications may be time consuming, expensive and uncertain. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. the fda and the ftc also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there are adequate and reasonable scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including warning letters, and may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions. 25 if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with fda, ftc and other applicable u.s. regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations by governmental authorities or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; the inability to sell our products; difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and civil fines and criminal prosecutions. other applicable u.s. regulations . as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information that we receive, including the hipaa, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, national and state laws regulate privacy and may regulate our use of data. furthermore, hipaa was amended by the hitech act to provide that business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers who receive or have access to patient health information. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that we may incur as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. there is an increasing threat of information security attacks that pose risk to companies, including varian. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our 26 financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. moreover, we manufacture and sell hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and software that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information, and both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. while we have implemented security measures to protect both our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in fully securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and saas software products which reside upon and are hosted by third party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third party hosting services could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as the patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. compliance with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products may be costly, and failure to comply may result in significant penalties regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the united states vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the united states. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. marketing a medical device internationally . in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, expensive and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the inclusion of significant limitations on the indicated uses of a product, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the medical device directive. this conformity to the medical device directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body. once the ce mark is affixed, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive. by affixing the ce mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept ce mark standards. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive, we would lose our right to affix the ce mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eu/eea/switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the ce mark. in september 2012, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices and a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on in vitro diagnostic medical devices which will, once adopted by the european parliament and by the council, replace the existing three medical devices directives. since negotiation by member states of the available drafts are still ongoing, no publication of the new directive is expected until 2016. the new proposal imposes stricter requirements for the placing in the market of medical devices as well as on the notified bodies. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities in order to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with international regulatory authorities, including reports required by international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not timely filed, regulators may impose sanctions, including temporarily suspending our market authorizations or ce mark, and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. 27 further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities internationally, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. manufacturing and selling a device internationally . we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations by governmental authorities; fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions; increased difficulty in obtaining required approvals in foreign countries; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; and the inability to sell our products in or to import our products into such countries. other applicable international regulations . we are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. particularly within the eu/eea/switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. data protection authorities from the different member states of the eu may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and timely, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable u.s. laws, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with eu/eea/switzerland data protection rules. failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the eu/eea/switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. new data protection legislation that will entail substantial changes to the current legal framework, some stricter than before, some less strict, is expected to be enacted by the eu commission in 2015. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. the affordable care act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the affordable care act. the affordable care act could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems and vpt products, which took effect on january 1, 2013. the congressional budget office estimates that the total cost to the medical device industry could exceed $30 billion over ten years. this tax has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our gross margin. 28 in addition, discussions relating to the affordable care act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and accountable care organizations ( acos ). acos and bundled payment programs were established by the affordable care act to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. acos and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. however, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and bundled reimbursement payments. these and other elements of the affordable care act, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals (the physician payment sunshine act ), could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and reduced medical procedure volumes. we believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy, in the united states is being adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the affordable care act and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenue from quarter-to-quarter. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. changes to radiation oncology and other reimbursements and changes in insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to restrain individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs they bear are lower, particularly in the medical diagnostic portion of our business. third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. furthermore, there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers for procedures using our products that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by cms to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. in addition, discussions relating to the affordable care act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and acos. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and stock price. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and we cannot be sure that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. 29 we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business laws and ethical rules governing interactions with healthcare providers . the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. violating anti-kickback and false claims laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several recently enacted state and federal laws, including laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act, now require, among other things, extensive tracking and maintenance of databases regarding the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. these laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certain payments to healthcare providers. failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. anti-corruption laws and regulations . we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011, and the law on the fundamentals of health protection in the russian federation, which became effective in january 2012. in general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anticorruption laws and their enforcement, and the healthcare industry and medical equipment manufacturers have been particular targets of these investigation and enforcement efforts. any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international's 2014 corruption perceptions index measured the degree to which public sector corruption is perceived to exist in 174 countries/territories around the world, and found that nearly seventy percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigating and protecting against corruption risks could be quite costly. in addition, failure by us or our agents or distributors to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets and could adversely affect our business. this notwithstanding, we will inevitably do more business, directly and potentially indirectly, in countries where the public sector is perceived to be more or highly corrupt and will be engaging in business in more countries perceived to be more or highly corrupt. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key 30 personnel from our business operations. for example, in june 2015, one of our foreign subsidiaries was charged by the department for investigation and penal action of lisbon with alleged improper activities relating to three tenders of medical equipment in portugal during the period of 2003 to 2009. we previously undertook an internal investigation of this matter and voluntarily disclosed the results of this investigation to the u.s. department of justice and the u.s. securities and exchange commission. at this time, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this matter but intend to defend it vigorously. an adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. competition laws . due to our competitive position in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of increased importance to us. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions, and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. in addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm our future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation (for example, when our security and inspection products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnoses of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists to the intended or unintended recipient of the delivery. our medical products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle product liability claims against us, regardless of their actual merit. if a product liability action were finally determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including the possibility of punitive damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments, even ones that do not involve our products, could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation of radiation therapy, radiosurgery, medical devices or the healthcare industry in general, and adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. both adverse publicity and increased regulatory activities could negatively impact our business and results of operations. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons) or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships 31 with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and accruing losses under gaap. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may also prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, we could have to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure characterize the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software. new competitors may enter our markets, and we have encountered new competitors as we have entered new markets such as radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. the shift in the proportion of sales within our international region towards emerging market countries, which typically have purchased less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. new competitors may also delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders. in imaging components, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers who compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. as a result, we must have an advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. with our security and inspection products, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states. the market for our x-ray tube and flat panel products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fragmented. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of technologies such as our on-board imager ( obi ) for igrt and our motion management technologies. in each of our business segments, existing competitors' actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. 32 open architecture is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to achieve this as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and a high level of training and education is required in order to use them competently and safely-requirements made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) making our software products easier to use and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. we have emphasized an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and vmat and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems, however, that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with the other company products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, and in either case our competitive position would be harmed if we are not able to do so we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. for example, during september and october 2015, we filed several complaints in the u.s. and foreign courts and the u.s. international trade commission against elekta ab and its subsidiaries alleging infringement of various patents relating to certain aspects of cone beam imaging, cone-beam gantries, volumetric modulated arc therapy, and mr-linac. an unfavorable outcome in this or in any other such litigation or proceeding could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. 33 third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. for example, in september 2015, elekta ltd. and william beaumont hospital served the company with a complaint alleging infringement of three patents related to certain aspects of cone beam imaging in conjunction with radiotherapy. this lawsuit is in the initial stages and we are not able to predict its ultimate outcome. we may incur substantial costs and expend significant management resources defending against these claims and our defense of these claims may ultimately not be successful. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if actual liabilities significantly exceed our estimates regarding potential liabilities, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. furthermore, a third party claiming infringement may not be willing to license its rights to us, and even if a third party rights holder is willing to do so, the amounts we might be required to pay under the associated royalty or license agreement could be significant. as such, we could decide to alter our business strategy or voluntarily cease the allegedly infringing actions rather than face litigation or pay a royalty, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial results from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. we are currently involved in various legal proceedings and claims, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims (such as the current litigation with elekta ltd. and william beaumont hospital), that have not yet been fully resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years with interim motions or judgments subject to multiple levels of review (such as appeals or rehearings) before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their actual merit. if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glass frames and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality 34 specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have insurance to protect against business interruption loss, this insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. furthermore, some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for oncology systems and security and inspection products; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray tubes, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for vpt. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. in addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. as customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase, as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. as a result, as orders increase in size and require more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in gross orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. we sell our imaging components to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, and a reduction in business or inability to properly forecast sales by one or more of these customers could reduce our sales we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors with in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations. if these customers manufacture a greater percentage of their components in-house or otherwise lower external sourcing costs, such as we have begun to see as a result of the recent strengthening of the u.s. dollar, we could experience reductions in purchasing volume by, or loss of, one or more of these customers. such a reduction or loss has had and will likely continue to have a material adverse effect on our imaging components business. in addition, economic uncertainties over the past few years, natural disasters and other matters beyond our control have made it difficult for our oem customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. such economic uncertainties and natural disasters, as well 35 as other factors, have previously impacted our imaging components business resulting in inventory reduction efforts and slowdowns in sales at some of these customers. similar inventory adjustments and slowdowns in sales could occur in the future. our agreements for imaging components may contain purchasing estimates that are based on our customers' historical purchasing patterns, and actual purchasing volumes under the agreements may vary significantly from these estimates. orders for our security and inspection products tend to be unpredictable our imaging components business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications, as well as industrial applications. we generally sell security and inspection products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in our security and inspection products will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. orders for our security and inspection products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or our oem customers in a short time period, and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. because it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery, the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition varies significantly. the market for border protection systems has slowed significantly and end customers, particularly in oil-based economies and war zones in which we have a significant customer base, are delaying system deployments or tenders and considering moving to alternative sources, resulting in a decline in the demand for security and inspection products which is expected to continue. in addition, demand for our security and inspection products is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to economic conditions, as well as political changes. we have seen customers freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, delay projects, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. as economic growth remains sluggish in various jurisdictions and appears to be deteriorating in others, and as concerns about levels of government employment and government debt continue, we expect that these effects will also continue. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have previously encountered with a large government project. these factors make the timing of orders, sales and revenues in this business more unpredictable and could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, vmat, srs, sbrt or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat stereotactic radiotherapy, srs, sbrt and proton therapy generally, to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and to promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. additionally, if we are unable to retain key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, which also could hurt our business. 36 if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies, which could harm our business we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, during fiscal year 2014, we acquired certain assets of velocity and transpire, and during fiscal year 2015, we acquired claymount and a majority interest in mevis. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our expenses related to research and development, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company into a business that lacks them. it is also possible that an acquisition could increase our risk of litigation, as a third party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. even if we do so, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies, growth or benefits we expected. if we decide to sell assets or a business, as we did in fiscal year 2008 with the scientific research instruments business that we acquired as part of our acquisition of accel gmbh, it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. we may be required to dispose of a business at a lower price or on less advantageous terms, or to recognize greater losses, than we had anticipated. if we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. additionally, we have investments in privately held companies that are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. these investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize. if these companies do not succeed, we could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. for example, in fiscal year 2014, we recorded a charge relating to the impairment of a portion of a privately-held equity investment when we became aware of certain indicators of impairment. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, such as particle therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and 37 development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins than existing products. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we work with distributors for sales in some territories, and losing them could harm our revenues in that territory we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors, including siemens ag, for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales in these territories and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, and margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues and margins, from period to period. drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. when orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the net order amounts) and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due, for example, to an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed, cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our quarterly operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our international region as a whole, by regions within the overall region, as well as by individual countries (notably those in emerging markets); 38 fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our imaging components; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which are presently lower than the gross margins for our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. we report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. order cancellation or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods. our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. the financial results of our varian particle therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable the development of our vpt business enables us to offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. our success in this area will depend upon the wide-spread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. however, this technology has not been widely adopted and future developments may not be adopted as quickly as others. since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more of our time and uses more of our resources. many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of vpt that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. the worldwide economic downturn resulted in a contraction in credit markets. this has made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request that we participate in financing arrangements (such as we have for the scripps proton therapy center, maryland proton therapy center and the new york proton center) or make payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could impact our operating results. challenges or delays in obtaining financing or commencing treatment could also impact the viability of one or more of our customers as a going concern. changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments, or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for hospital based proton therapy centers in the united states by cms, can affect growth or demand for our vpt products and services. we compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. if we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, there is a risk we will lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders 39 may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large and complex, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years, and an order in one fiscal period (or the cancellation of an order as a result of bid challenge or otherwise) will cause our gross orders to vary significantly, making comparisons between fiscal periods more difficult. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of vpt's business for the foreseeable future. in instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which could adversely impact our operating results. our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the results of vpt's business. if we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. it is possible that vpt could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, revenue growth rates, and operating margins. these factors could adversely impact vpt's ability to meet its projected results, which could cause a portion or all of the goodwill of vpt to become impaired. as of october 2, 2015 , the goodwill of vpt was $50.0 million . if we determine that vpt's goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in such period. our vpt business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability vpt's business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project, as well as in some situations participate in or provide project financing for the project. since the cost of each proton therapy center project will often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. these and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a credit facility with debt outstanding that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), american institute of certified public accountants, the sec and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, 40 which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. currently, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and proton therapy commissioning contracts and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our imaging components business under contract accounting rules, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply contract accounting rules to other businesses in the future. under contract accounting rules, the use of the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, estimates which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. for example, revenues recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. in circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. recognizing revenues using the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin, as we had done with the revenues associated with the scripps proton therapy center in the earlier stages of the project lowers our gross margins and makes it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. in addition, if we were to recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under either the completed contract method or outside of contract accounting rules altogether, we would defer revenue until a contract is completed or substantially completed. this may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. as a strategy to assist our sales efforts, we may participate in project financing or offer extended payment terms, which may adversely affect our financial results we have provided financing for the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center, maryland proton therapy center and the new york proton center, and we may provide or be requested to provide financing to other potential vpt customers in the future. providing such financing could adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide assurance that a center will be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to facilitate a refinancing, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at maturity. in addition, in connection with our financing of the scripps proton therapy center, we cannot provide any assurance that any additional portion of our loan can be syndicated to third parties, or that the loan facility can be successfully refinanced upon the maturity of the loan. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off its debts, and if we cannot recover the amounts due us from the sale of any collateral, we may be required to write off all, or a portion of the loan, which would adversely affect our financial results. in addition, in some circumstances we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in vpt or our other businesses. many of the areas where we offer such longer or extended payment terms have under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. as of october 2, 2015 , customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately six percent of our accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. concerns over continued economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, longer or extended payment terms could impact the timing of our revenue recognition, and they have in the past and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. provisions of delaware law and our charter documents could be insufficient to deter a hostile takeover; and actions of activist stockholders could adversely affect our business certain provisions of delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could deter a hostile takeover, while others could be insufficient to deter a hostile takeover. our stockholder rights plan expired in december 2008, and we did not 41 renew it. in addition, in february 2014 our stockholders approved, and we filed an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to declassify our board of directors commencing in 2016. both of these changes reduced our ability to defend against a hostile takeover. the remaining provisions of delaware law and of our charter documents may not be effective in defending against a hostile takeover or attack by an activist stockholder that may not be in the best interest of all of our shareholders, which could distract our management and adversely affect our business. in addition, we may be subject to one or more campaigns by stockholders who desire to increase stockholder value in the short term. any such campaign could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing on our strategic goals, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires material disclosure information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers' damaged manufacturing facilities. these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. even if we are able to quickly respond to a disaster, the ongoing effects of the disaster could create some uncertainty in the operations of our businesses, such as occurred following the march 2011 tsunami in japan. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as ebola, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. we work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations where the country or location and surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues; war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. in those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to 42 be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our financing receivables and cptc, the obligor under the loan facility in which we are participating to finance the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center. in november 2015, orix, j.p. morgan and the company (collectively the lenders ) and cptc entered into a forbearance agreement whereby the lenders will not enforce their rights to principal and interest payments until april 2017, subject to cptc maintaining certain covenants and achieving certain targets, with additional extensions through september 2017 based on hitting additional targets largely around patient volume and cash flow. in connection with the forbearance agreement the lenders agreed to make available up to an additional $9.7 million of loan proceeds (based on their pro-rata share of the existing loan) with terms similar to the tranche a loan for additional working capital needs; our proportionate share of this commitment is $4.4 million and is expected to be drawn down during fiscal year 2016. there were no other significant changes to the loan agreements. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the last economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over continued economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity. 72 foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer's country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries' functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to thirteen months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currency or the u.s. dollar. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at october 2, 2015 were as follows: (in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 13.9 $ 1.42 brazilian real 1.7 4.05 british pound 25.6 0.66 canadian dollar 9.5 1.32 danish krone 3.5 6.61 euro 241.7 14.0 0.89 hungarian forint 18.1 277.40 indian rupee 10.1 65.94 japanese yen 76.6 119.23 norwegian krone 0.5 8.34 swedish krona 8.5 8.31 swiss franc 74.3 0.97 thai baht 3.4 36.63 totals $ 400.1 $ 101.3 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. our investment portfolio primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments as of october 2, 2015 . the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at october 2, 2015 totaled $845.5 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.16%. at october 2, 2015 , our available-for-sale investments included loans of $83.9 million (including accrued interest) to cptc, which bears interest at the libor plus 7.00% per annum with a minimum interest rate of 9.00% per annum. the cptc loans are carried at fair value. 73 the 2013 credit facility allows us to borrow up to a maximum amount of $500 million under the 2013 term loan facility and $300 million under the 2013 revolving credit facility. borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility accrue interest either (i) based on a eurodollar rate, as defined in the credit agreement (the eurodollar rate ), plus a margin of 1.00% to 1.25% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of up to 0.25% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility accrue interest either (i) based on the eurodollar rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.50% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.50% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from vms. borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility have a maturity of approximately 30 days if based on the eurodollar rate and the same maturity as the 2013 term loan facility if based on the base rate. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our revolving credit facility and term loan facility. at october 2, 2015 , borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility totaled $387.5 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.32% , borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility totaled $90.0 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.57% . if the amount outstanding under our term loan facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $4.8 million. see a detailed discussion of our credit facilities in md&amp;a liquidity and capital resources. in addition, the sumitomo credit facility allows vms kk to borrow up to a maximum amount of 3 billion japanese yen. borrowings under the sumitomo credit facility accrue interest based on the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin of 0.5% per annum. as of october 2, 2015 , the outstanding balance under the sumitomo credit facility was $18.4 million with a weighted average interest of 0.63% . to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the fair value of our loans to cptc was $83.9 million at october 2, 2015 , which was estimated based on the income approach by using the discounted cash flow model with key assumptions that include discount rates corresponding to the terms and risks associated with the loan to cptc. in addition, we do not increase the fair value above its par value as orix, the loan agent, has the option to purchase these loans from us under the original terms and conditions at par value. at october 2, 2015 , our available-for-sale investments also included other corporate debt securities and a non-u.s. government security with a fair value of $9.1 million and changes in interest rates are expected to have an insignificant impact on the fair value. the estimated fair value of our term loan payable in fiscal year 2018, at october 2, 2015 , approximated its carrying value because the term loan is carried at a market observable interest rate that resets periodically. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 74risk factors 21 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products and enhancements to or simplifications of existing product lines the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. our oncology systems products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products (including linear accelerators, accessories, treatment systems and software products) and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing product lines. our oncology systems products, including products such as edge and truebeam, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, if not be superior to, the products of our competitors in order to remain competitive. we are also expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and software-as-a-service ( saas ) solutions. the development and introduction of new software platforms and software delivery models, as well as different revenue models, can be highly complex and uncertain, in relation to both our ability to develop and implement such platforms or models and in our customers' acceptance of such platforms or models. our imaging components business, which sells primarily to a small number of imaging system oem customers which use our products in their medical diagnostic, security and industrial imaging systems, must continually introduce new products at competitive costs while also improving existing products with higher quality, lower costs and improved feature sets. because this business competes in very price sensitive markets with other market players which are much larger and may have in-house supply of competing components, our ability to anticipate our customers' demands, innovate and introduce new products at a competitive cost and to improve the quality, cost and features of our existing products is extremely critical to our success in this business. our failure to do so can and has resulted in loss of customers and adverse impacts on our financial performance. with a strong u.s. dollar, our ability to meet our international customers' pricing expectations is particularly challenged and can result in erosion of product margin and market share. we are investing in the growth of our particle therapy business, and expect that we will need to invest more to develop and commercialize new products and technology for this business. accordingly, our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing, as well as significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part. in addition, because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems, including ours, there is increasing demand for development of a smaller, more compact proton therapy system. other companies currently offer smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems, and our ability to compete with these companies may depend on our ability to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. 21 we may need to spend more time and money than anticipated to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements and, even if new products and product enhancements are successful they may not be sufficiently profitable such that we are able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, which could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be proportionately greater than the costs associated with other products, and may therefore disproportionately adversely affect our gross and operating margins. if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact our success with new products or enhancements. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, depends on our ability to: properly identify customer needs or long-term customer demands; prove the feasibility of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns or shortages caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; appropriately manage our supply chain; manage customer acceptance and payment for products; manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and anticipate, respond to and compete successfully with competitors. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the fda. failure to complete these processes on a timely and efficient basis could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. new products generally take longer to install than well-established products. because a portion of a product's revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. in addition, even if we succeed in our product introductions, potential customers may decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. as a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. more than half of our revenues are international, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable we conduct business globally. our international revenues accounted for approximately 57% , 54% and 57% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. correspondingly, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so. for example, we have aligned our resources to support sales and marketing efforts in emerging markets. we cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to meet our sales, service and support objectives or obligations in these international markets, or recover our investments. our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: 22 currency fluctuations, and in particular the strength of the u.s. dollar since the end of our fiscal year 2014 relative to many currencies, which has adversely affected our financial results and caused some customers to delay purchasing decisions or move to in-sourcing supply or migrate to lower cost alternatives or ask for additional discounts; the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in international regions, and in emerging markets in particular; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country's legal systems; unstable regional political and economic conditions or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries, such as may result from the outcome of the 2016 u.s. presidential election; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region, including as a result of the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to leave the european union ( brexit ); the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs (such as the russia-ukraine sanctions) or other restrictions on foreign trade; the typically longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in international regions; any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals; failure to comply with export laws and requirements, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international sales have represented a larger share of our business. the more we depend on international sales, the more vulnerable we become to these factors. as of september 30, 2016 , approximately 95% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, a portion of this amount could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. earnings from our international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. a change in the percentage of our total earnings from outside the united states, a change in the mix of our earnings in particular international tax jurisdictions, or a change in currency exchange rates, could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. also, we are not currently taxed in the united states on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or u.s. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed to be or actually are remitted to the united states, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected. in addition, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the interpretation of tax laws or other changes beyond our control could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. the proposed separation of our imaging components business into an independent, publicly-traded company may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or terms, or at all, may be more expensive than anticipated and may not achieve the intended benefits. in may 2016, we announced our intention to separate our imaging components business into an independent, publicly-traded company, named varex imaging corporation ("varex"). the separation is subject to final board approval of the terms of the separation, receipt of one or more opinions with respect to certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation, the sec declaring the effectiveness of the registration statement, market and certain other conditions, and there can be no assurance as to whether or when the separation will occur. unforeseen developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax and regulatory approvals or clearances, could delay or prevent the proposed separation or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected. we expect the process of completing the proposed separation will be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be 23 significantly higher than what we currently anticipate, may increase in the event that the timing of the separation is delayed and may not yield a benefit if the separation is not completed. executing the proposed separation, as well as performing varian's obligations under a transition services agreement to be entered into with varex for a period of time after the separation, will require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. separating the businesses may also result in dis-synergies post-separation that could negatively impact the balance sheet, income statement and cash flows of each business. in addition, upon completion of the separation, varex will be the sole source of supply of x-ray tubes and flat panels used in certain of our products, such as our on-board imager. any disruption to or reduction in the supply of these components could result in delays to our product deliveries, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. moreover, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. as independent, publicly-traded companies, varian and varex would each be smaller, less diversified companies with narrower business focuses and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect their respective businesses, financial condition and results of operations and lead to increased volatility in the price of varian and/or varex common stock. in addition, there can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies would be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred. we intend to obtain an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the separation will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to both varian and its stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the internal revenue service (the irs ) or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. our results have been and may continue to be affected by global or regional economic instability the global economy has been impacted by a number of economic and political factors, including the current russia-ukraine sanctions. in many markets, these conditions have reduced capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and more time consuming to obtain, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. this, in turn, has caused our customers to be more cautious with, and to sometimes freeze, delay or dramatically reduce, purchases and capital project expenditures. some countries have adopted and may in the future adopt austerity or stimulus programs that could positively or negatively affect our results from period to period, making it difficult for investors to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, the outcome of the 2016 u.s. presidential election and the announcement of brexit and the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers to reduce their spending, which in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. an uncertain economic environment may also disrupt supply or affect our service business, as customers' constrained budgets may result in pricing pressure, extended warranty provisions and even cancellation of service contracts. in addition, concerns over continued economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. historically, our business has felt the effects of market trends later than other sectors in the healthcare industry, such as diagnostic radiology, and we may experience the effects of any economic recovery later than others in the healthcare industry. a weak or deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. we face significant costs in order to comply with laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could prevent us from distributing our products, require us to recall our products and result in significant penalties our products and those of oems that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the united states. compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. furthermore, public media reports on misadministrations of radiotherapy in patients and focus on the role of the fda in regulating medical devices has led to increased scrutiny of medical device companies and an increased likelihood of enforcement actions. 24 u.s. laws governing marketing a medical device . in the united states, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the fda, the nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ) and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the state of california, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. these regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval ( pma ) before it can market or sell those products in the united states. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. although manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, we cannot assure you that the fda will agree with our decisions not to seek additional approvals or clearances for particular modifications to our products or that we will be successful in obtaining new 510(k) clearances for modifications. obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and the pma process is more complex than the 510(k) clearance process. we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for the product. if we were unable to obtain required fda clearance or approval for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business could suffer. in the past, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. however, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the pma approval process. if we were required to use the pma process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, such as radiosurgery and opportunities that require clinical trials, we become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations, including fda and foreign rules and regulations that are applicable to the clinical trial process and protection of study subjects. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. quality systems . our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the fda's qsr, as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with qsr and in connection with these inspections issues reports, known as form fda 483 reports when the fda believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if observations from the fda issued on form fda 483 reports are not addressed and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the fda's satisfaction, the fda may issue a warning letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. similarly, if a warning letter were issued, prompt corrective action to come into compliance would be required. failure to respond timely to form fda 483 observations, a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in the fda bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities, denial of importation rights to the u.s. for products manufactured in overseas locations, adverse publicity and criminal and civil fines. the expense and costs of any corrective actions that we may take, which may include products recalls, correction and removal of products from customer sites and/or changes to our product manufacturing and quality systems, could adversely impact our financial results and may also divert management resources, attention and time. additionally, if a warning letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors who could use the warning letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the fda, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations ( mdrs ), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not filed on a timely basis, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. if we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a publicly available correction and removal report to the fda and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. 25 this report could be classified by the fda as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the fda, other international regulatory agencies and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our devices. furthermore, the submission of these reports has been and could be used against us by competitors in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions, cancel orders or adversely affect our reputation. our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. our manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. obtaining licenses and certifications may be time consuming, expensive and uncertain. in addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. in particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. the fda and the ftc also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is adequate and reasonable scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. if the fda or ftc determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including warning letters, and may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with fda, ftc and other applicable u.s. regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; increased pressures from our competitors; investigations by governmental authorities or warning letters; fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required fda clearances or approvals; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; the inability to sell our products; difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and civil fines and criminal prosecutions. other applicable u.s. regulations . as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information that we receive, including the hipaa, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, and false claims laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. we also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. for example, national and state laws regulate privacy and may regulate our use of data. furthermore, hipaa was amended by the hitech act to provide that business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to hipaa, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward 26 more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers who receive or have access to patient health information. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that we may incur as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. our results may be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we sell in foreign markets. for example, since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, the u.s. dollar has strengthened significantly against the euro and certain foreign currencies, which adversely impacted our financial results in fiscal year 2015 and in the first half of fiscal year 2016. in addition, brexit caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates that resulted in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. a strong u.s. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast accuracy. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. furthermore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not in another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis - typically up to the next twelve-month period. therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. a substantial portion of our international sales are priced in local currencies, although our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. the volatility of the u.s. dollar that we have experienced over the last several years, and in particular the strengthening of the u.s. dollar since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, some of which may have cost structures based in other currencies, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. in addition, a significant portion of our imaging component customers are outside the united states and products in this business are generally priced in u.s. dollars. as a result, the demand for imaging components products has been negatively impacted by pricing pressures resulting from the strengthening u.s. dollar. the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates has caused some customers in our imaging components business to delay purchasing decisions or move to in-sourcing supply or migrate to lower cost alternatives or ask for additional discounts. we expect that a strong u.s. dollar will continue to negatively impact demand and pricing for imaging component products. even if the u.s. dollar weakens, these customers may continue using alternative sources and demand for our products may not increase. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. furthermore, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until such time as stable exchange rates are established. disruption of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. there is an increasing threat of information security attacks that pose risk to companies, including varian. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software 27 deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. moreover, we manufacture and sell hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and software that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information, and both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. while we have implemented security measures to protect both our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in fully securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and saas software products which reside upon and are hosted by third party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third party hosting services could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. if we were to experience a significant security breach of our information systems or data, the costs associated with the investigation, remediation and potential notification of the breach to customers and counter-parties could be material, and we may not have sufficient insurance to compensate us for those costs. in addition, if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability, we may have to pay substantial damages, in addition to any costs related to our defense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. compliance with foreign laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of our products may be costly, and failure to comply may result in significant penalties regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the united states vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the united states. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. marketing a medical device internationally . in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, expensive and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the inclusion of significant limitations on the indicated uses of a product, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a european marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the medical device directive. this conformity to the medical device directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body. once the ce mark is affixed, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive. by affixing the ce mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept ce mark standards. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive, we would lose our right to affix the ce mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eu/eea/switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the ce mark. in september 2012, the european commission adopted a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices and a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on in vitro diagnostic medical devices which, once adopted by the european parliament and by the council, would replace the existing three medical devices directives and would have legislative effect without having to be implemented by the member states. the new draft was published in august 2016 and the expected date for publication is april 2017, starting a three year transition period . the new proposal imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities in order to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. 28 in addition, we are required to timely file various reports with international regulatory authorities, including reports required by international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. if these reports are not timely filed, regulators may impose sanctions, including temporarily suspending our market authorizations or ce mark, and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities internationally, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. in addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. manufacturing and selling a device internationally . we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. if we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations by governmental authorities; fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions; increased difficulty in obtaining required approvals in foreign countries; losses of clearances or approvals already granted; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; and the inability to sell our products in or to import our products into such countries. other applicable international regulations . we are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. particularly within the eu/eea/switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. data protection authorities from the different member states of the eu may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and timely, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable u.s. laws, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with eu/eea/switzerland data protection rules. failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the eu/eea/switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. new data protection legislation that entails substantial changes to the current legal framework, some stricter than before, some less strict, was enacted by the eu commission in 2015. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. 29 the affordable care act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the affordable care act. the affordable care act could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems and vpt products, which took effect on january 1, 2013. this tax has had, and may in the future continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin, but was suspended for 2016 and 2017. in addition, discussions relating to the affordable care act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and accountable care organizations ( acos ). acos and bundled payment programs were established by the affordable care act to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. acos and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. however, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and bundled reimbursement payments. these and other elements of the affordable care act, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals (the physician payment sunshine act ), could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and medical procedure volumes. we believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy, in the united states is being adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the affordable care act and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and could result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenues from quarter-to-quarter. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government's role in the u.s. healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. in addition, it is possible that changes in administration and policy, including the potential repeal of all or parts of the affordable care act, resulting from the recent u.s. presidential election could result in additional proposals and/or changes to health care system legislation which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the full effect that a full or partial repeal of the affordable care act would have on our business remains unclear at this time. changes to radiation oncology and other reimbursements and changes in insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to inhibit individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs were lower, particularly in the medical diagnostic portion of our business. third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. furthermore, there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers for procedures using our products at a level that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms") to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by 30 the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. in addition, discussions relating to the affordable care act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and acos. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position and stock price. in april of 2015, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 ( macra ) was signed into law, which made numerous changes to medicare, medicaid, and other healthcare related programs. these changes include new systems for establishing the annual updates to payment rates for physicians' services in medicare. macra is effective beginning january 1, 2017. our business may be significantly affected by macra and any changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative initiatives aimed at or having the effect of reducing healthcare costs associated with medicare and other government healthcare programs. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. we are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices which, if violated, could result in substantial penalties. additionally, challenges to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to and thus could harm our business laws and ethical rules governing interactions with healthcare providers . the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda, which is called off-label promotion. violating anti-kickback and false claims laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. additionally, several recently enacted state and federal laws, including laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act, now require, among other things, extensive tracking and maintenance of databases regarding the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. these laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certain payments to healthcare providers. failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. we are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, within the eu, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. the member states of the eu closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. we could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. if these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 31 anti-corruption laws and regulations . we are also subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011, and the law on the fundamentals of health protection in the russian federation, which became effective in january 2012. in general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anticorruption laws and their enforcement, and the healthcare industry and medical equipment manufacturers have been particular targets of these investigation and enforcement efforts. any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international's 2015 corruption perceptions index measured the degree to which public sector corruption is perceived to exist in 168 countries/territories around the world, and found that nearly sixty-seven percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigating and protecting against corruption risks could be quite costly. in addition, failure by us or our agents or distributors to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets and could adversely affect our business. this notwithstanding, we will inevitably do more business, directly and potentially indirectly, in countries where the public sector is perceived to be more or highly corrupt and will be engaging in business in more countries perceived to be more or highly corrupt. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. for example, in june 2015, one of our foreign subsidiaries was charged by the department for investigation and penal action of lisbon with alleged improper activities relating to three tenders of medical equipment in portugal during the period of 2003 to 2009. we previously undertook an internal investigation of this matter and voluntarily disclosed the results of this investigation to the u.s. department of justice and the u.s. securities and exchange commission. after the company requested a judicial review available under portuguese criminal procedure processes as to whether or not such charges are proper under portuguese law, the matter was resolved and definitively dismissed, subject to a 30-day probation period which began on october 21, 2016, with no adverse findings or charges against the company. any such proceeding results in costs and management distraction, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. an adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. competition laws . due to our competitive position in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of increased importance to us. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions, and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. in addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm our future revenues and require us to pay material uninsured claims our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation (for example, when our security and inspection products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnoses of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists to the intended or unintended recipient of the delivery. our medical products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages 32 resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle product liability claims against us, regardless of their actual merit. if a product liability action were finally determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including the possibility of punitive damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments, even ones that do not involve our products, could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation of radiation therapy, radiosurgery, medical devices or the healthcare industry in general, and adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. both adverse publicity and increased regulatory activities could negatively impact our business and results of operations. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons) or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and accruing losses under gaap. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may also prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, we could have to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. as a strategy to assist our vpt sales efforts, we may participate in project financing or offer extended payment terms, which may adversely affect our financial results we have provided financing for the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center, mptc and the new york proton center, and we may provide or be requested to provide financing to other potential vpt customers in the future. as of september 30, 2016, we had loaned $95.3 million , $40.7 million and $18.5 million to cptc, mptc and mm proton i, llc, respectively. providing such financing could adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide assurance that a center will be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to facilitate a refinancing, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at maturity. in addition, in connection with our financing of the scripps proton therapy center, we cannot provide any assurance that any additional portion of our loan can be syndicated to third parties, or that the loan facility can be successfully refinanced upon the maturity of the loan. in november 2015, we and the other lenders of the cptc loan for the scripps proton therapy center agreed to forbear principal and interest payments until april 2017, subject to certain extensions. at the end of fiscal year 2016, even though patient volumes continued to increase, cptc was not in compliance with a patient volume covenant under the forbearance agreement, which would allow the lenders to call the loan or cease further funding under the loan agreement. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off its debts, and if we cannot recover the amounts due us from the sale of any collateral, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion of the loan, which would adversely affect our financial results. in addition, in some circumstances we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in vpt or our other businesses. many of the areas where we offer such longer or extended payment terms have under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. as of september 30, 2016 , customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately six percent of our net accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. concerns over continued economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad 33 debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, longer or extended payment terms could impact the timing of our revenue recognition, and they have in the past and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding and thus a decrease in our cash flow from operations. the financial results of our particle therapy business may fluctuate and be unpredictable the development of our vpt business enables us to offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. our success in this area will depend upon the widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. however, this technology has not been widely adopted and future developments may not be adopted as quickly as technological developments in more traditional areas of radiation therapy. since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more of our time and uses more of our resources than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business. many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of vpt that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. the worldwide economic downturn that began in 2008 resulted in a contraction in credit markets. this has made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request that we participate in financing arrangements or make payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could impact our operating results. we have participated in the financing of several proton therapy projects, including the scripps proton therapy center, maryland proton therapy center and the new york proton center, through the extension of loans, loan commitments and deferred equipment payments. if we are unable to collect amounts owing to us under these arrangements it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, in the event that one or more proton therapy projects to which we have provided financing were to default under project financing arrangements and the project finance lenders were to foreclose on the project, it could harm our reputation or the reputation of proton therapy projects generally and make it more difficult for future proton therapy projects to obtain financing. challenges or delays in obtaining financing or commencing treatment could also impact the viability of one or more of our customers as a going concern. changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments, or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for hospital based proton therapy centers in the united states by cms, can affect growth or demand for our vpt products and services. we compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. if we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, there is a risk we will lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large and complex, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years, and an order in one fiscal period (or the cancellation of an order as a result of bid challenge or otherwise) will cause our gross orders and revenues to vary significantly, cause fluctuations in the operating results of vpt that may make it difficult to predict our results and compare our results from period to period. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of vpt's business for the foreseeable future. in instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the results of vpt's business. if we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. it is possible that vpt could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, revenue growth rates, and operating margins. these factors could adversely impact vpt's ability to meet its projected results, which could cause a portion or all of the goodwill of vpt to become impaired. as of september 30, 2016 , the goodwill of vpt was $49.8 million . if we determine that vpt's goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in such period. 34 our particle therapy business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability vpt's business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project, as well as in some situations participate in or provide project financing for the project. since the cost of each proton therapy center project will often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. in addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. these and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or the ability to develop more effective technologies, or we could be forced to reduce our prices the markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. new competitors may enter our markets, and we have encountered new competitors as we have entered new markets such as radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. the shift in the proportion of sales within our international region towards emerging market countries, which typically have purchased less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. new competitors may also delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders and revenues. in imaging components, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary oem customers for our x-ray components, also manufacture x-ray components, including x-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. we must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. in addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent x-ray tube manufacturers who compete with us for both the oem business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for x-ray tubes. the market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. as a result, we must have an advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. with our security and inspection products, we compete with other oem suppliers, primarily outside of the united states. the market for our x-ray tube and flat panel products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fragmented. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of technologies such as our on-board imager ( obi ) for igrt and our motion management technologies. in each of our business segments, existing competitors' actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. these competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. in addition, the timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal 35 requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. open architecture is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to achieve this as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and a high level of training and education is required in order to use them competently and safely-requirements made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) making our software products easier to use and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. we have emphasized an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and vmat and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems, however, that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with the other company products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, and in either case our competitive position would be harmed if we are not able to do so we file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. for example, during september and october 2015, we filed several complaints in the u.s. and foreign courts and the u.s. international trade commission against elekta ab and its subsidiaries alleging infringement of various patents relating to certain aspects of cone beam imaging, cone-beam gantries, volumetric modulated arc therapy, and combined magnetic resonance imaging-linear accelerator systems. these legal proceedings are ongoing and, although there have been interim court rulings in certain jurisdictions, there have been no definite outcomes to date. an unfavorable outcome in these proceedings or in any other such litigation or proceedings could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. 36 we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. for example, in september 2015, elekta ltd. and william beaumont hospital served us with a complaint alleging infringement of three patents related to certain aspects of cone beam imaging in conjunction with radiotherapy. in february 2016, elekta ltd. filed several complaints in u.s. and foreign courts alleging infringement of certain patents related to linear accelerator control systems and treatment planning. in october 2016, elekta ltd. filed a complaint in the united kingdom alleging infringement of a further patent related to linear accelerator control systems and treatment planning, and added a patent relating to the same subject matter to its existing u.s. suit filed in february 2016. these lawsuits are ongoing, and we are not able to predict their ultimate outcome. we may incur substantial costs and expend significant management resources defending against these claims or prosecuting our claims and our defense of these claims or our prosecution of claims against elekta may ultimately not be successful. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if actual liabilities significantly exceed our estimates regarding potential liabilities, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. furthermore, a third party claiming infringement may not be willing to license its rights to us, and even if a third party rights holder is willing to do so, the amounts we might be required to pay under the associated royalty or license agreement could be significant. as such, we could decide to alter our business strategy or voluntarily cease the allegedly infringing actions rather than face litigation or pay a royalty, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our financial results from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. we are currently involved in various legal proceedings and claims, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims (such as the current litigation with elekta ltd. and william beaumont hospital), that have not yet been fully resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years with interim motions or judgments subject to multiple levels of review (such as appeals or rehearings) before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. for these and other reasons, we may choose to settle legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their actual merit. 37 if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. the loss of a supplier or any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays in our ability to deliver products, or significantly increase our costs we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors, and specialized integrated circuits, x-ray tube targets, housings, glass frames and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. in addition, following the planned separation of our imaging components business, varex imaging corporation will be the sole source supplier of tubes and panels used in certain of our products. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. although we have insurance to protect against business interruption loss, this insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. furthermore, some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our rapidly growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for oncology systems and security and inspection products; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for x-ray tubes, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for vpt. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. in addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. as customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase, as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. as a result, as orders increase in size and require 38 more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable. in addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in gross orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of vms common stock. we sell our imaging components to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors, and a reduction in business or inability to properly forecast sales by one or more of these customers could reduce our sales we sell our x-ray tube products to a limited number of oem customers, many of which are also our competitors with in-house x-ray tube manufacturing operations. if these customers manufacture a greater percentage of their components in-house or otherwise lower external sourcing costs, such as we have begun to see as a result of the recent strengthening of the u.s. dollar, we could experience reductions in purchasing volume by, or loss of, one or more of these customers. in the event of such a reduction or loss it could have a material adverse effect on our imaging components business. in addition, if any of our customers modify their business operations in ways that result in a reduction in or the discontinuation of purchases of our imaging components products, or divest business operations to third parties that reduce or discontinue purchasing our imaging components products, it could have a material adverse effect on our imaging components business. for example, lower purchases from a customer with higher x-ray tube inventory, due in part to longer tube life, has contributed to recent declines in imaging component business revenues. moreover, economic uncertainties over the past few years, natural disasters and other matters beyond our control have made it difficult for our oem customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. such economic uncertainties and natural disasters, as well as other factors, have previously impacted our imaging components business, resulting in inventory reduction efforts and slowdowns in sales at some of these customers. similar inventory adjustments and slowdowns in sales could occur in the future. our agreements for imaging components may contain purchasing estimates that are based on our customers' historical purchasing patterns, and actual purchasing volumes under the agreements may vary significantly from these estimates. orders for our security and inspection products tend to be unpredictable our imaging components business designs, manufactures, sells and services linatron x-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications, as well as industrial applications. we generally sell security and inspection products to oems who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. we believe growth in our security and inspection products will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. orders for our security and inspection products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or our oem customers in a short time period, and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. because it is difficult to predict our oem customer delivery, the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition varies significantly. the market for border protection systems has slowed significantly and end customers, particularly in oil-based economies and war zones in which we have a significant customer base, are delaying system deployments or tenders and have considered moving to alternative sources, resulting in a decline in the demand for security and inspection products which is expected to continue. in addition, demand for our security and inspection products is heavily influenced by u.s. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to economic conditions, as well as political changes. we have seen customers freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, delay projects, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. as economic growth remains sluggish in various jurisdictions and appears to be deteriorating in others, and as concerns about levels of government employment and government debt continue, we expect that these effects will also continue. furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have previously encountered with a large government project. these factors make the timing of orders, sales and revenues in this business more unpredictable and could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of vms common stock. 39 if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products, our business will suffer in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, vmat, srs, sbrt or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat stereotactic radiotherapy, srs, sbrt and proton therapy generally, to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and to promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. additionally, if we are unable to retain key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, which also could hurt our business. if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products, our financial results may suffer many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies, which could harm our business we need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. for example, during fiscal year 2014, we acquired certain assets of velocity and transpire, during fiscal year 2015, we acquired claymount and a majority interest in mevis, and during 2016 we acquired the radiotherapy business of candela. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our expenses related to research and development, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company into a business that lacks them. it is also possible that an acquisition could increase our risk of litigation, as a third party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 40 further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. even if we do so, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies, growth or benefits we expected. if we decide to sell assets or a business, as we did in fiscal year 2008 with the scientific research instruments business that we acquired as part of our acquisition of accel gmbh, it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. we may be required to dispose of a business at a lower price or on less advantageous terms, or to recognize greater losses, than we had anticipated. if we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. additionally, we have investments in privately held companies that are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. these investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize or reach expectations. if these companies do not succeed, we could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. for example, in fiscal year 2014, we recorded a charge relating to the impairment of a portion of our equity investment in a privately-held company when we became aware of certain indicators of impairment. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, as we did with particle therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins than existing products. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we work with distributors for sales in some territories, and losing them could harm our revenues in that territory we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors, including siemens ag, for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales in these territories and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, and margins, may cause our stock price to be volatile, which could cause losses for our stockholders we have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues and margins, from period to period. drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer 41 construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. when orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the net order amounts) and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due, for example, to an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed, cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our quarterly operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our international region as a whole, by regions within the overall region, as well as by individual countries (notably those in emerging markets); fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our imaging components; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which presently carry lower gross margins than do our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would likely decline. we report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. order cancellation or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods. our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. 42 we have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position we maintain a credit facility with debt outstanding that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. we may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. in addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. in addition, we have in the past used borrowings under our credit facility to fund the repurchase of vms shares and we may continue to do so in the future. in the event that we cannot use borrowings under our credit facility to fund share repurchases, whether because we have drawn down the maximum amounts borrowable under our credit facility, to do so would violate covenants in our credit facility, or otherwise, and we do not have access to other cash resources necessary to fund the desired share repurchases, it could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), american institute of certified public accountants, the sec and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. as our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. currently, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and proton therapy commissioning contracts and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our imaging components business under contract accounting rules, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. we could be required to apply contract accounting rules to other businesses in the future. under contract accounting rules, the use of the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, estimates which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. for example, revenues recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. in circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. recognizing revenues using the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin, as we had done with the revenues associated with the scripps proton therapy center in the earlier stages of the project, lowers our gross margins and makes it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. in addition, if we were to recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under either the completed contract method or outside of contract accounting rules altogether, we would defer revenue until a contract is completed or substantially completed. this may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. 43 provisions of delaware law and our charter documents could be insufficient to deter a hostile takeover; and actions of activist stockholders could adversely affect our business certain provisions of delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could deter a hostile takeover, while others could be insufficient to deter a hostile takeover. our stockholder rights plan expired in december 2008, and we did not renew it. in addition, in february 2014 our stockholders approved, and we filed an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to declassify our board of directors commencing in 2016. both of these changes reduced our ability to defend against a hostile takeover. the remaining provisions of delaware law and of our charter documents may not be effective in defending against a hostile takeover or attack by an activist stockholder that may not be in the best interest of all of our shareholders, which could distract our management and adversely affect our business. in addition, we may be subject to one or more campaigns by stockholders who desire to increase stockholder value in the short term. any such campaign could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing on our strategic goals, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can also result in liability we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires substance information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain access to certain markets. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers' damaged manufacturing facilities. these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. even if we are able to quickly respond to a disaster, the ongoing effects of the disaster could create some uncertainty in the operations of our businesses, such as occurred following the march 2011 tsunami in japan. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as ebola, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. 44 we work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations where the country or location and surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues; war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. in those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our financing receivables and cptc, the obligor under the loan facility in which we are participating to finance the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center. in november 2015, orix, j.p. morgan and the company (collectively the lenders ) and cptc entered into a forbearance agreement whereby the lenders will not enforce their rights to principal and interest payments until april 2017, subject to cptc maintaining certain covenants and achieving certain targets, with additional extensions through september 2017 based on hitting additional targets largely around patient volume and cash flow. in connection with the forbearance agreement the lenders agreed to make available up to an additional $9.7 million of loan proceeds (based on their pro-rata share of the existing loan) with terms similar to the tranche a loan for additional working capital needs; our proportionate share of this commitment is $4.4 million. there were no other significant changes to the loan agreements. as of september 30, 2016, our outstanding commitment under the cptc loans was $1.1 million and is expected to be drawn down over the next 12 months. as of september 30, 2016, even though patient volumes continued to increase, cptc was not in compliance with one of the patient volume covenants in the forbearance agreement, which would allow the lenders to cease funding under the tranche c loan and terminate the forbearance agreement. financing receivables include notes receivable from nypc and mptc of $18.5 million and $40.7 million, respectively. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the last economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over continued economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer's country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries' functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to thirteen months in maturity. 75 we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currency or the u.s. dollar. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 30, 2016 were as follows: (dollars in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 21.2 $ 1.31 brazilian real 7.1 3.28 canadian dollar 3.0 1.31 euro 159.2 1.0 0.89 indian rupee 9.1 67.00 japanese yen 69.3 101.18 swedish krona 4.5 8.56 swiss franc 94.0 0.97 totals $ 270.4 $ 98.0 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. our investment portfolio primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments as of september 30, 2016 . the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 30, 2016 totaled $843.5 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.24%. at september 30, 2016 , our available-for-sale investments included loans of $95.3 million (including accrued interest) to cptc, which bears interest at the libor plus 7.00% per annum with a minimum interest rate of 9.00% per annum. the cptc loans are carried at fair value. borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility accrue interest either (i) based on a eurodollar rate, as defined in the credit agreement (the eurodollar rate ), plus a margin of 0.875% to 1.125% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda (earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and amortization), or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00% , whichever is highest, plus a margin of up to 0.125% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility accrue interest either (i) based on the eurodollar rate plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.375% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda, or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00% , whichever is highest, plus a margin of 0.125% to 0.375% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility have a maturity of approximately 30 days if based on the eurodollar rate and the same maturity as the 2013 term loan facility if based on the base rate. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our 2013 term loan facility and 2013 revolving credit facility. at september 30, 2016 , borrowings under the 2013 term loan facility totaled $337.5 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.65% , borrowings under the 2013 revolving credit facility totaled $300.0 million with a weighted average interest rate of 1.91% . if the amount outstanding under our 2013 credit facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $6.4 million. see a detailed discussion of our credit facilities in md&amp;a liquidity and capital resources. 76 in addition, the sumitomo credit facility allows vms kk to borrow up to a maximum amount of 3 billion japanese yen. borrowings under the sumitomo credit facility accrue interest based on the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin of 0.5% per annum. as of september 30, 2016 , the outstanding balance under the sumitomo credit facility was $29.6 million with a weighted average interest of 0.53% . to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. the fair value of our loans to cptc was $95.3 million at september 30, 2016 , which was estimated based on the income approach by using the discounted cash flow model with key assumptions that include discount rates corresponding to the terms and risks associated with the loan to cptc. in addition, we do not increase the fair value above its par value as orix, the loan agent, has the option to purchase these loans from us under the original terms and conditions at par value. the cptc loans are classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. the estimated fair value of our term loan payable in fiscal year 2018, at september 30, 2016 , approximated its carrying value because the term loan is carried at a market observable interest rate that resets periodically. although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 77risk factors 18 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks relating to our businesses our performance depends on successful improvements to our existing products and commercialization of new products. the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. our performance depends on the successful commercialization of new products that reflect and respond to changes in the marketplace, technology and customer demands. our oncology systems products often have long development and government approval cycles, are technologically complex and must demonstrate high performance to remain competitive. our software products compete in markets characterized by rapid technological advances, changing delivery models, evolving standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and software-as-a-service ( saas ) solutions. the development and introduction of new software platforms and software delivery models, as well as different business models, is complex with many technology, regulatory and legal hurdles. we cannot assure you we can successfully develop and implement such platforms or models or that our customers will accept them. our vpt products require capital commitment, planning, design, development and testing, as well as involvement of senior management. because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems there is increasing demand for the development of smaller, more compact proton therapy systems. other companies currently offer smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems, and our competitiveness will depend on our ability to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. we may need to spend more time and money than anticipated to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements. we may not be able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, which could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be disproportionately greater than the costs associated with other products, and if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements depends on our ability to: properly identify and respond to customer needs; demonstrate the value proposition of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; 18 limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns or shortages caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; and and manage customer demands for new and old products, and optimize complementary product lines and services. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully commercialize new products because commercialization involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the fda. failure to complete these processes on a timely and efficient basis could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders. a portion of a product's revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product and our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred where it takes longer to manufacture or install the new products. customers may also decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or more effective technologies, or be forced to reduce our prices. the markets for cancer treatment are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab and accuray incorporated. in addition, our software products compete with the product offerings of a variety of companies, such as philips medical systems, raysearch laboratories ab and brainlab ag. new competitors may enter our markets and have already entered some of our newer markets such as radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. established enterprise software developers with greater software development capability may enter the markets for cancer treatment software. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other development resources than we have. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical capabilities, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. new competitors may also delay the purchasing decisions of customers as they evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders and revenues. the shift in the proportion of sales outside the united states towards emerging market countries, which typically purchase less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition and longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our primary competitor in the proton therapy market is ion beam applications s.a. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, and develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver precise, cost-effective, high quality capabilities. large amounts of resources are being invested in the research and development of new therapies for cancer. the successful development of alternative therapies for cancer, including, for example, pharmaceutical treatments such as immunotherapy, increased efficacy information about new therapies or existing products, pricing decisions by competitors and the rate of market penetration by competitive products may render our products obsolete, result in lost market share for us, reduced utilization of our products, lower prices, and reduced product sales. the timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a 19 marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. the interoperability of radiation oncology treatment products is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to establish interoperability. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (1) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (2) making our software products easier to use and (3) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and a high level of training and education is required to use them safely and effectively. the requirements are made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. we have emphasized an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and vmat and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with other products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive to our customers. disruption of critical information systems or material security breaches in our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. there is an increasing threat of information security attacks that pose risk to companies, including varian. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable 20 laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. we manufacture and sell hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and software that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information. both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. while we have implemented security measures to protect our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and saas software products which reside upon and are hosted by third-party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. if we were to experience a significant security breach of our information systems or data, the costs associated with the investigation, remediation and potential notification of the breach to customers and counter-parties could be material. we currently self-insure for cybersecurity liability. if we seek to obtain third party insurance coverage for cybersecurity liability in the future, our insurance coverage may be inadequate, expensive and/or not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. we may offer extended payment terms to certain customers, which could adversely affect our financial results. we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers. as of september 29, 2017 , customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately two percent of our net accounts receivable balance. while we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer payment term. many of the customers where we offer such longer or extended payment terms are located in under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. concerns over economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, longer or extended payment terms decrease our cash flow from operations and could impact the timing of our revenue recognition. economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable. our international revenues accounted for approximately 54% , 56% , and 51% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. correspondingly, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend resources in doing so. we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover these investments in international markets. our results of operation could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in international regions, and in emerging markets in particular; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the typically longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in certain international and emerging markets; currency fluctuations; difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country's legal systems; unstable regional political and economic conditions or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries; 21 changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region, including as a result of the initiation by united kingdom to exit the european union ( brexit ); the imposition by governments, including the united states, of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs or other restrictions on foreign trade; any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals; any inability to comply with export or import laws and requirements or any violation of sanctions regulations, which may result in enforcement actions, civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on exportation; any increase in the cost of trade compliance functions to comply with changes to regulatory requirements; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements to conduct business in a foreign jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. most of our cash and cash equivalents are held abroad. if these funds are repatriated to the united states, we could be subject to additional taxation. as of september 29, 2017 , approximately 95% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. if these funds were repatriated to the united states, a portion of this amount could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the united states and in the countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. earnings from our international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than u.s. rates. a change in the percentage of our total earnings from outside the united states, a change in the mix of our earnings in particular international tax jurisdictions, or a change in currency exchange rates, could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. also, we are not currently taxed in the united states on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. these earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or united states federal and state taxes if they are remitted, or deemed to be remitted, to the united states, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected. in addition, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the interpretation of tax laws or other changes beyond our control could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. for example, the u.s. congress is considering changes to u.s. tax law, including provisions, which if passed into law, would have a significant impact on the taxation of the foreign earnings of u.s.-based multinational corporations. changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results. because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we sell in foreign markets. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast accuracy. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. furthermore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not in another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis, typically up to the next twelve-month period. therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over a longer term. long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. a substantial portion of our international sales are priced in local currencies, although our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. therefore, the strengthening of the u.s. dollar may adversely affect our competitiveness and financial results, as our foreign competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies and they may be more competitive when the u.s. dollar strengthens against those currencies. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. furthermore, if one or more european countries were 22 to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. we are subject to certain risks related to the separation of our former imaging components business into varex imaging corporation. on january 28, 2017, we completed the separation of our former imaging components business through the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of varex imaging corporation ( varex ) to our stockholders. following the separation, varex is the sole source of supply of x-ray tubes, flat panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our on-board imager. in connection with the separation, we entered into several agreements with varex providing for transition and other services to varex for a period of time following the separation. performing our obligations under these agreements requires significant time and attention from many of our employees, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. following the separation, varian is a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and lead to increased volatility in the price of our common stock. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the separation will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to both varian and its stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the united states internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the internal revenue service (the irs ) or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial results. from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products. we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. in addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. as customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase, as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. if orders increase in size and require more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable and could result in longer overall order to revenue cycles. in addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in pricing could negatively impact gross orders, future revenues and gross margins. 23 our business will suffer if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products. in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, vmat, srs, sbrt or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat radiotherapy, srs, sbrt and proton therapy, to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and to promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel. our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers, as well as universities and research institutions. as we continue to grow our software revenues, we face intense competition for personnel from software and technology companies. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. some of our executive officers have had long careers at our company. if these executives retire or leave, and we are unable to locate qualified or suitable replacements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies, which could harm our business. we need to grow and evolve our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or fully realize some of the expected synergies. integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. it may cost us more to commercialize new products, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our research and development, sales and marketing or general and administrative expenses, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations. in many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company into a business that lacks them. it is also possible that an acquisition could increase our risk of litigation, as a third-party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim. in addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. failure to manage these risks could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth or cash flows from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. 24 additionally, we have investments in privately held companies. these investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize or reach expectations. if these companies do not succeed, we may be forced to record impairment charges and could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business. from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, as we did with particle therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. this may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate the business into our operations. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. losing distributors may harm our revenues in some territories. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales or the ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. we entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial position. we maintain a credit facility that contains affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. we have in the past used borrowings under our credit facility to fund the repurchase of vms shares and we may continue to do so in the future. if we cannot use borrowings under our credit facility to fund announced share repurchases, because we have drawn down the maximum amounts borrowable under our credit facility, to do so would violate covenants in our credit facility, or otherwise, and we do not have access to other cash resources necessary to fund the desired share repurchases, it could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in the interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results. we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), american institute of certified public accountants, the sec and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate each period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. currently, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under contract accounting rules, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. under contract accounting rules, the use of the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, estimates which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. for example, revenues recognized under 25 the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. in circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero-profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. recognizing revenues this way lowers our gross margins and makes it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. in addition, if we were to recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under either the completed contract method or outside of contract accounting rules altogether, we would defer revenue until a contract is completed or substantially completed. this may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. if our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. in addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control. we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace the damaged facilities. these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal or may move to a competitor that can meet their desired delivery time frame. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. we work in international locations with high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs. we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations where the country or surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues; war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. in those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm our future financial results. our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists to the intended or unintended recipient of the delivery. our products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately delivers radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, 26 installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third-party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a product liability action were finally determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including the possibility of punitive damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation that could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and do no maintain professional liability/errors and omissions insurance. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against, we may have to pay substantial damages if they are not covered by insurance. additional risks relating to our software products we may face delays in the installation of our software products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we may face delays in the installation and acceptance of our software products, which may take more time from order to completion of installation and acceptance than our hardware products. though several of our software products are cloud-enabled, our current software product offerings are for the most part designed as on-premise products which must be installed on customer systems on-site. delays in installation of our software products may arise as a result of a variety of factors, including longer installation timetables resulting from challenges in coordinating on-site visits with the customer personnel, customer it systems not being ready to host the installation or the planning and customization required to deploy our software products in order to be compatible with a customer's unique, complex and/or dated health it systems. delays in installation of our software products could result in delays in our ability to recognize revenues from the sale of these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers could adversely affect our ability to release upgraded or new products. because there is no uniform practice among our customer base of updating to more recent versions of our software products and, for a variety of reasons, many of our customers do not regularly update to the newest version of our software products, at any point in time our installed base of customers may be running several different versions of our software products. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers can be cumbersome, time consuming and may require more personnel and other resources than would be the case if all of our customers utilized the same versions of our software products. moreover, the fact that not all of our customers run the same version of our software products can complicate our ability to efficiently release upgrades to, or new versions of, our software products across our installed base. similar complications to the release and installation of upgrades may be experienced with certain of our cloud-enabled products that have been developed using single tenant architecture, such as our 360 oncology product. in addition, in many instances, unless a customer has a certain version of our software products installed, their system 27 will not be compatible with certain of our other software or hardware products. our inability to release new versions of software to customers or to sell customers other products because of incompatibility issues hurts our revenues and may make revenue projection less predictable. coding errors in our software and cloud offerings could adversely affect our results of operations. despite extensive testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our software and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released software or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our software or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. we may not be successful in transitioning our customer base to software solutions deployed via cloud and saas solutions. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and saas solutions. cloud and saas solutions for use in the health care industry must comply with stringent regulations in many of the countries in which our customers are located, particularly in relation to the use and storage of patient health data and privacy, and the regulations vary on a country-by-country basis. our software products must be compliant with applicable regulation in the country in question before we can operationalize our offerings for customers located in those countries. ensuring the compliance of our cloud and saas solutions with applicable regulation may take longer than expected, occur more slowly in certain countries than in others, require that design changes be developed into our products, or require more financial resources than anticipated. in addition, even where our cloud and saas solutions are compliant with applicable regulation, customers may nevertheless refuse to adopt our products for numerous reasons, particularly in regards to the security of patient health data. moreover, unless and until our cloud and saas solutions find general acceptance among our customer base we would likely need to maintain and continue to develop both our on-premise software product offerings and our cloud and saas solution platforms, which could prevent us from realizing the full benefits and efficiencies from transitioning to a cloud platform, result in higher costs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. an increase in the prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors could also unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise software offerings, and have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise software product and related service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the shorter term. in addition, to the extent that demand for our cloud offerings increases in the future, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our software licenses and our cloud offering arrangements. furthermore, our cloud and saas software products may reside upon and be hosted by third party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third party hosting services, could disrupt treatments utilizing our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. additional risks relating to our varian particle therapy business we participate in project financing for our particle therapy business, which has resulted in impairment charges and could result in payment defaults that adversely affect our financial results. we have participated along with others in providing financing for the construction and start-up operations of several proton therapy centers and may provide financing to other particle therapy customers in the future. as of september 29, 2017, we had $171.9 million carrying value of loans outstanding to vpt customers, available-for-sale securities, notes receivable and short-term senior secured debt related to the vpt business. see management discussion and analysis - overview - varian particle therapy and note 16, "vpt loans and securities" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the carrying value of our outstanding loans relating to the establishment of proton therapy centers. providing such financing has affected and could in the future adversely affect, our financial results, since a center may not be completed on time or within budget, or 28 may not generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to facilitate a refinancing. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off loan amounts owing to us, and if we cannot recover loan amounts owing to us from the sale of any collateral or through other means, or in the event of a bankruptcy of the borrower, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion, of the loans, which would adversely affect our financial results. for example, in fiscal year 2017, the cptc, to which we had project financing outstanding, filed for bankruptcy and we recorded $51.4 million in impairment charges related to that financing. we also recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts of $37.8 million related to cptc and one other proton center in fiscal year 2017. moreover, as of september 29, 2017, we had $35.0 million in subordinated loans and $25.1 million in long-term notes receivable outstanding from the maryland proton therapy center ( mptc ). we have been informed that mptc intends to refinance its outstanding senior indebtedness in early 2018. if mptc fails to refinance its senior indebtedness as planned, it may impact debt with later maturities including ours, and we may be required to impair all or a portion of our indebtedness outstanding to mptc. please refer to management discussion and analysis - overview - varian particle therapy and note 16, "vpt loans and securities" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the impairment of the loans we extended. any impairment charges relating to our vpt business could have a material adverse impact our operating results and financial position. the financial results of our vpt business may be unpredictable and if our proton customers are unsuccessful, our financial results will be adversely affected. the success of our particle therapy business will depend upon the widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. this technology is expensive and has not been widely adopted. future developments may not be adopted as quickly as technological developments in more traditional areas of radiation therapy. since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more resources. many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of vpt that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. economic downturns, that result in a contraction in credit markets, have made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could adversely impact our operating results. proton therapy is expensive and changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments, or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for hospital based proton therapy centers in the united states by cms, can affect growth or demand for our vpt products and services. after a proton therapy facility is established, there can be no assurance that it will have sufficient patient volume to be successful or profitable. if a proton treatment center cannot generate sufficient patient volume, it may lead to a need to refinance or renegotiate debt, seek concession on payments, or ultimately insolvency and bankruptcy, as in the case of cptc and rinecker in germany, which has and may in the future require us to impair loans if we have extended loans to the proton treatment center, or to record an allowance for doubtful accounts against accounts receivables due from the proton treatment center. our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the future results of vpt's business. if we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. it is possible that vpt could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, market acceptance of proton therapy and reimbursement rates. these factors could adversely impact vpt's ability to meet its projected results, which could cause a portion or all of the goodwill of vpt to become impaired. as of september 29, 2017 , the goodwill of vpt was $52.4 million . vpt's fair value was 21% in excess of its carrying value, and we believe each of the assumptions used to calculate vpt's fair value to be reasonable. however, vpt could be at risk for future goodwill impairment because adjustments to revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted-average cost of capital ("wacc") and/or our working capital used in the fair value calculation could lead to an impairment. if we determine that vpt's goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in such period. 29 we compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. if we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, we may lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be large and complex, and the sales cycle for proton therapy projects may take several years, an order in one fiscal period may cause our gross orders and revenues to vary significantly, making it difficult to predict and compare our results of operations from period to period. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of vpt's business for the foreseeable future. in instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which in turn could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. our vpt business may subject us to increased liability. vpt's business may subject us to increased liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since the cost of each proton therapy center project can often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. risks relating to the manufacture of our products any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict the manufacture of products, cause delays in delivery, or significantly increase our costs. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose rate brachytherapy, klystrons for linear accelerators and specialized integrated circuits and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited-sourced or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. in addition, following the separation of our former imaging components business into varex in january 2017, varex is the sole source supplier of tubes, panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our on-board imager. any disruption or reduction in the supply of these components could result in delays or reductions in our product deliveries, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. also, any unforecasted increases in the price of these components could adversely impact our profitability. 30 a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods. we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for oncology systems and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for vpt. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial results may suffer if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products. many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. we rely on third parties to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. disruptions at our logistics providers may adversely impact our business. third-party logistics providers store a significant portion of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and perform a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. if any of our logistics providers terminates its relationship with us, suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or if we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our spare parts, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. risks relating to our regulatory environment we face significant costs in complying with laws and regulations, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or complying with laws and regulations could prevent product distribution, require product recalls, and result in significant penalties. our products and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california, the nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ) and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and source, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance protocols into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. united states fda regulations . unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval ( pma ) before it can market or sell those products in the united states. certain of our devices are subject to 510(k) clearance while others are exempt from 510(k) clearance. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's 31 decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease united states marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. the fda clearance process is uncertain and we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals in a timely manner or at all. we do not manufacture class iii medical devices which require pma. the pma process is more complex than the 510(k) clearance. as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities that require clinical trials, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the united states or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board ( irb ). failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject us to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure you that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. the fda has issued draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. if we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market approval through a pma application. under the pma process, the applicant submits extensive supporting data, including, in most cases, data from clinical studies, in the pma application to establish reasonable evidence of the safety and effectiveness of the product. this process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pma is accepted for filing, but can take significantly longer for the fda to review. in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these include compliance with the medical device reporting regulations ( mdrs ), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur, and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. if these reports are not filed on a timely basis, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. the fda and the federal trade commission ( ftc ) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the united states have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the fda's quality system regulation ( qsr ), as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation-emitting products. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and post-market experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the united states. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with the qsr. in connection with these inspections, the fda issues reports, known as form fda 483 reports, when it believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if observations from the inspection are not addressed, and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the fda's satisfaction, the fda may issue an untitled letter, a warning letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. failure to respond timely to form fda 483 observations, a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the united states, and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. 32 united states nrc regulations. our products utilizing radioactive material are also subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. the manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires a number of licenses and certifications. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. in addition, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. foreign regulations. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, burdensome and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the medical device directive. this conformity to the medical device directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body. once the ce mark is affixed, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive. by affixing the ce mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept ce mark standards. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive, we would lose our right to affix the ce mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eu/eea/switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the ce mark. in april 2017, the medical device regulation was adopted to replace the medical device directive. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. data privacy laws. we are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. particularly within the eu/eea/switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex. data protection authorities from the different member states of the eu may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and time consuming, which could adversely affect our business. additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable u.s. laws, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with eu/eea/switzerland data protection rules. failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the eu/eea/switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. new data protection legislation that entails substantial changes to the current legal framework, some stricter than before, some less strict, was enacted by the eu commission and will come into effect in 2018. 33 other united states healthcare laws. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to patient privacy and data security, fraud and abuse and physician payment transparency. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop. non-compliance with anti-kickback , false claims and transparency laws and regulations can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs. these healthcare laws include: the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, that prohibit payments or other remuneration intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda. state and federal transparency laws, including laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act which require, among other things, the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. any failure or delay in complying with one or more of the regulatory requirements we face could result in reduced sales, increased costs, and harm to our reputation and competitiveness, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the affordable care act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices. the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the aca ) became effective in 2010. the aca could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the aca is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems and vpt products, which took effect on january 1, 2013. this tax has had, and may in the future continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin, but was suspended for 2016 and 2017. unless there is further legislative action, the tax will be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after january 1, 2018. in addition, discussions relating to the aca have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and accountable care organizations ( acos ). acos and bundled payment programs were established by the aca to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. acos and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. however, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and bundled reimbursement payments. these and other elements of the aca, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and medical procedure volumes. we believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy, in the united states could be adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes 34 are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the aca and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and could result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenues from quarter-to-quarter. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals, uncertainty related to implementation of aca provisions, and instability within insurance markets created under the aca, will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government's role in the united states healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. in addition, it is possible that changes in administration and policy, including the potential repeal of all or parts of the aca could result in additional proposals and/or changes to health care system legislation which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the full effect that a full or partial repeal of the aca would have on our business remains unclear at this time. more recently, president trump has signed an executive order and made statements that suggest he plans to seek repeal of all or portions of the aca, and has asked congress to replace the current legislation with new legislation. there is uncertainty with respect to the impact president trump's administration may have, if any, and any changes likely will take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the aca. however, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us. changes to radiation oncology, reimbursements, and insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products. sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to inhibit individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs were lower. third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers at a level that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare makes a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms") to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts may extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. in addition, discussions relating to the affordable care act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and acos. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position and stock price. in april 2015, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 ( macra ) was signed into law, which made numerous changes to medicare, medicaid, and other healthcare related programs. these changes include new systems for establishing the annual updates to payment rates for physicians' services in medicare. macra became effective on january 1, 2017. our business may be significantly affected by macra and any changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative initiatives aimed at or having the effect of reducing healthcare costs associated with medicare and other government healthcare programs. 35 foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. any violation of federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices may result in substantial penalties. investigation into our business practices could cause adverse publicity and harm our business. anti-corruption laws and regulations. we are subject to the united states foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, which became effective on july 1, 2011, and the law on the fundamentals of health protection in the russian federation, which became effective in january 2012. any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international's 2016 corruption perceptions index found that approximately sixty-nine percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies. for example, in june 2015, one of our foreign subsidiaries was charged by the department for investigation and penal action of lisbon with alleged improper activities relating to three tenders of medical equipment in portugal during the period of 2003 to 2009. we previously undertook an internal investigation of this matter and voluntarily disclosed the results of this investigation to the united states department of justice and the united states securities and exchange commission. after the company requested a judicial review available under portuguese criminal procedure processes as to whether or not such charges are proper under portuguese law, the matter was resolved and definitively dismissed on december 9, 2016, with no adverse findings or charges against the company. any such proceeding results in costs and management distraction, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. an adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. competition laws. we are subject to competition laws in the regions where we do business. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions, and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. in addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can result in liability. we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires substance information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain 36 access to certain markets. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. proposed changes to u.s. tax law may result in a reduced corporate tax rate, while also limiting or eliminating certain tax deductions and changing the taxation of foreign earnings of u.s. multinational companies. these changes could have a material adverse impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, our income taxes payable and our effective tax rate. the u.s. congress is considering significant changes to the u.s. tax code, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, and changes to a number of deductions and to the treatment of foreign earnings of u.s. multinational companies. our net deferred tax assets are measured using tax rates under current law. the proposed reduction in the corporate tax rate would result in a significant reduction in the value of our existing deferred tax assets, and consequently a charge to our earnings, in the period in which any rate change is enacted. the proposed changes also include a mandatory deemed repatriation of the foreign earnings of a u.s. company's foreign subsidiaries. if enacted, this proposal could result in an increase in our provision for income taxes in the period in which the proposal is enacted. at this time, it is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform proposals will be enacted into law and the ultimate impact of such legislation on our business and financial results is uncertain. risks relating to our intellectual property protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, which would harm our business. we file applications for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot assure you that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. an unfavorable outcome in such litigation or proceedings could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases, products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products. there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to 37 significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. risks relating to our common stock fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, margins, and cash flows may cause our stock price to be volatile, resulting in losses for our stockholders. we have experienced and expect to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues, margins and cash flows from period to period. drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. the timing of order placement, equipment installation and revenue recognition affect our quarterly results. once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the backlog amounts) and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due, for example, to an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed, cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels; impairment of loans, notes receivables, accounts receivable; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by different geographic regions; fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; 38 the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which presently carry lower gross margins than do our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would likely decline. we report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the quarterly review or annual audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. order cancellation or delays in delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods. in addition, our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. 65 we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our financing receivables and cptc, the obligor under the loan facility in which we are participating to finance the construction and start-up operations of the scripps proton therapy center. in january 2017, we were informed of actions taken by cptc and the loan agent, including cptc obtaining shareholder consents for voluntary bankruptcy filing and the loan agent deciding that no additional funding would be available outside of a bankruptcy process. as a result of this information and our analysis that these actions would likely lead to insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings at cptc, we determined that it was appropriate to record a $38.3 million other-than temporary impairment due to credit losses associated with the original cptc loans on the consolidated statements of earnings in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. as a result of this impairment, the original cptc loans were written down to their estimated fair value and reclassified from short-term investments to other assets on the consolidated balance sheet because we did not expect to collect or sell all or a portion of the loans in the next twelve months. in september 2017, the lenders and scripps signed a transition agreement to transition the operations of the center from scripps to a new operator. based on the terms of the transition agreement, a slower growth in patient volume, an increase in additional capital needs and our analysis we determined that the original cptc loans were other-than-temporarily impaired and recorded an additional $13.1 million impairment charge on the consolidated statements of earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. as of september 29, 2017, the original cptc loans have a fair value of $47.4 million. in march 2017, cptc filed for bankruptcy and concurrently entered into a debtor-in-possession facility ("dip") with orix capital markets, llc, j.p. morgan and the company for up to $16.0 million of additional financing during the bankruptcy process. our pro-rata share of the dip facility is $7.3 million. as of september 29, 2017 , our outstanding commitment under the dip facility was $2.2 million and is expected to be drawn down over the next twelve months. as of september 29, 2017 , we have an outstanding loan of $35.0 million to the maryland proton therapy center ("mptc"). our subordinated loan is due, with accrued interest, in three annual payments from 2020 to 2022. the interest on the outstanding loan accrues at 12% . we also have $25.1 million as long-term notes receivable related to a deferred payment arrangement with mptc. the notes receivable carries an interest rate of 15% and is due september 30, 2018. financing receivables also include notes receivable from the new york proton center, and proton international llc totaling $18.5 million and $3.0 million , respectively. in july 2017, we purchased the outstanding senior secured debt related to the rptc in munich, germany for 21.5 million euros or $24.5 million . by purchasing the senior secured debt, we have a right to 89 million euros in claims against all of rptc's assets. in september 2017, the management of rptc filed for bankruptcy in germany. as of september 29, 2017, preliminary insolvency proceedings have not been finalized, but we expect the insolvency proceedings to be finalized within the next twelve months. upon finalization of bankruptcy proceedings, we expect to recover our outstanding senior secured debt balance. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the last economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer's country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency sale transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries' functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to thirteen months in maturity. 66 we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currency or the u.s. dollar. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 29, 2017 were as follows: (dollars in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 29.1 $ 1.28 brazilian real 5.2 3.18 british pound 14.8 0.1 0.75 canadian dollar 8.2 1.25 danish krone 0.3 6.29 euro 247.2 6.1 0.85 hungarian forint 3.1 262.83 indian rupee 12.7 65.65 japanese yen 47.1 112.45 polish zloty 4.6 3.65 swedish krona 0.6 8.16 swiss franc 59.8 0.97 thai baht 4.8 33.31 totals $ 377.4 $ 66.3 interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. our investment portfolio primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments as of september 29, 2017 . the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents at september 29, 2017 totaled $716.2 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.39% . at september 29, 2017 , our available-for-sale investments included the original cptc loans of $47.4 million , $8.0 million in subordinated bonds with a fixed interest rate to finance the delray radiation therapy center ("drtc") and $4.4 million in senior capital appreciation bonds to finance the georgia proton therapy center ("gptc"). the original cptc loans bear interest at the london interbank offer rate ("libor") plus 7.0% per annum with a minimum interest rate of 9.0% per annum, the drtc subordinated bonds bear an interest rate of 8.5% per annum and the gptc senior capital appreciation bonds bear an interest rate of 8.0%. our available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value. borrowings under the 2017 revolving credit facility accrue interest either (i) based on the eurodollar rate plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.875% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda, or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of 0.125% to 0.875% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. borrowings under the 2017 revolving credit facility have a contract repayment date of twelve months , or less, and a final maturity of five years if based on the eurodollar rate and all overnight borrowings on the base rate would also have a final maturity of five years . we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our 2017 revolving credit facility. at september 29, 2017 , borrowings under the under the 2017 revolving credit facility totaled $350.0 million with a weighted average interest rate of 2.36% . if the amount outstanding under our 2017 revolving credit facility remained at this level for an entire year and interest rates increased or decreased by 1%, our annual interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, by an additional $3.5 million . see a detailed discussion of our credit facilities in md&amp;a liquidity and capital resources. 67 in addition, the sumitomo credit facility allows vms kk to borrow up to a maximum amount of 3.0 billion japanese yen. borrowings under the sumitomo credit facility accrue interest based on the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin of 0.5% per annum. as of september 29, 2017 , the there was no outstanding balance under the sumitomo credit facility. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. in addition, although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 68risk factors 18 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the occurrence of any of the following risks or of unknown risks and uncertainties may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. risks relating to our businesses our performance depends on successful improvements to our existing products and commercialization of new products. the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. our performance depends on the successful commercialization of new products that reflect and respond to changes in the marketplace, technology and customer demands. our oncology systems products often have long development and government approval cycles, are technologically complex and must demonstrate high performance to remain competitive. 18 our software products compete in markets characterized by rapid technological advances, changing delivery models, evolving standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and software-as-a-service ( saas ) solutions. the development and introduction of new software platforms and delivery models, as well as different business models, is complex with many technology, regulatory and legal hurdles. we cannot assure you we can successfully develop and implement such platforms or models or that our customers will accept them. our proton solutions products require capital commitment, planning, design, development and testing. because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems, there is increasing demand for the development of smaller, more compact proton therapy systems. although we have introduced our probeam compact single-room proton therapy solution, other companies have more experience offering smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems. our competitiveness will depend on our ability to continue to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. we may need to spend more time and money than anticipated to develop and introduce new products or enhancements. we may not be able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete. in addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be disproportionately greater than the costs associated with other products, and if we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements depends on our ability to: properly identify and respond to customer needs; demonstrate the value proposition of new products; limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns or shortages caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; price our products competitively and profitably; manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; and manage customer demands for new and old products, and optimize complementary product lines and services. furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully commercialize new products because commercialization involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the quality system regulation ( qsr ) of the fda. failure to complete these processes on a timely and efficient basis could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders. a portion of a product's revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, and our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred where it takes longer to manufacture or install the new products. customers may also decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. we compete in highly competitive markets, and we may lose market share to companies with greater resources or more effective technologies, or be forced to reduce our prices. the markets for cancer treatment are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. in radiotherapy and radiosurgery markets, we compete primarily with elekta ab and accuray incorporated. in addition, our software products compete with the product offerings of a variety of companies, such as philips medical systems, raysearch laboratories ab and brainlab ag. 19 new competitors may enter our markets and have already entered some of our newer markets such as radiosurgery, vmat and proton therapy. established enterprise software developers with greater software development capability may enter the markets for cancer treatment software. some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources. to compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical capabilities, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. as our oncology systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. new competitors may also delay the purchasing decisions of customers if customers decide to evaluate the products of such competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders and revenues. the shift in the proportion of sales outside the united states towards emerging market countries, which typically purchase less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition and longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. the market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. our primary competitor in the proton therapy market is ion beam applications s.a. our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, and develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver precise, cost-effective, high quality capabilities. the successful development of alternative therapies for cancer (e.g. pharmaceutical treatments such as immunotherapy), increased efficacy information about new therapies or existing products, pricing decisions by competitors and the rate of market penetration by competitive products may render our products obsolete, result in lost market share for us, reduce utilization of our products, lower prices, and reduce product sales and operating margins. the timing of our competitors' introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. in addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. the interoperability of radiation oncology treatment products is becoming increasingly important, and sales of our products could fall if we fail to establish interoperability. as radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focused on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. we have directed substantial product development efforts into (1) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (2) making our software products easier to use and (3) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and a high level of training and education is required to use them safely and effectively. we have emphasized an open systems approach that allows customers to mix and match our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and offer various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. we have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of imrt, igrt and vmat and will stimulate demand for our products. there are competitive closed-ended dedicated-use systems that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. if we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an open systems approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. while we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with other products. when other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. in addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential 20 interoperability issues. for example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. in many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes or delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. when we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. this process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. it is also possible that, despite our efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive to our customers. disruption of critical information systems or material security breaches in our products may adversely affect our business and customer relations. information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. there is an increasing threat of information security attacks for companies such as varian. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. if our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired. any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally. we manufacture and sell (i) hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and (ii) software products that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information. both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. while we have implemented security measures to protect our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and saas software products which reside with and are hosted by third-party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. if we were to experience a significant security breach of our information systems or data, the costs associated with the investigation, remediation and potential notification of the breach to customers and counter-parties could be material. we carry a limited amount of insurance for cybersecurity liability, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate. in the future, our insurance coverage may be expensive and/or not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. we may offer extended payment terms to certain customers, which could adversely affect our financial results. we offer extended payment terms for certain qualified customers. as of september 28, 2018 , customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately four percent of our net trade and unbilled receivables. while we qualify customers to whom we offer extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer payment term. many of the customers where we offer such extended payment terms are located in under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. concerns over economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. this may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. in addition, extended payment terms decrease our cash flow from operations. 21 economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable. revenues outside of the united states accounted for approximately 55% , 53% , and 55% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. correspondingly, we must provide significant service and support globally. we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend resources in doing so. we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover these investments in international markets. our results of operation could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products and services in international regions, and in emerging markets in particular; the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; the typically longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in certain international and emerging markets; currency fluctuations; difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country's legal systems; unstable regional political and economic conditions or changes in restrictions on trade between the united states and other countries; changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region, including as a result of the pending united kingdom exit from the european union ( brexit ); the imposition by governments, including the united states, of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs or other restrictions on foreign trade; any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals; any inability to comply with export or import laws and requirements or any violation of sanctions regulations, which may result in enforcement actions, civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on exportation; any increase in the cost of trade compliance functions to comply with changes to regulatory requirements; failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements to conduct business in a foreign jurisdiction; and the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries. tariffs or cross-border trade restrictions could increase the cost of our products. on july 6, 2018, the trump administration imposed 25% tariffs on a variety of imports from china, including varian's radiotherapy systems manufactured in china and certain components imported into the u.s. for our manufacturing and service activities. the administration subsequently imposed tariffs on two additional lists of products from china; the first of these additional lists involves 25% tariffs and the second list imposes 10% tariffs increasing to 25% on january 1, 2019. we expect our imports into the u.s. to be impacted less by these two additional tariff lists than by the initial tariff list. china responded to the multiple u.s. tariff lists by announcing several lists of products from the u.s. that are subject to additional tariffs upon import to china. the first round of chinese retaliatory tariffs went into effect on july 6, 2018. our products are not impacted by these tariffs. our exports of u.s. manufactured radiotherapy systems to china are impacted by the second chinese list, implemented on august 23, 2018, which is subject to a 25% tariff. a third group of items, including certain of our manufacturing inputs and services, is subject to 5 to 10% tariffs, which went into effect on september 24, 2018. any tariffs imposed by the united states and china that include varian technology could increase the cost of our products and adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and/or our operational results in the future. 22 we are participating in the office of the u.s. trade representative process to consider product-specific exclusions from these tariffs, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining an exclusion. changes in foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results. because our business is global, and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in u.s. dollars of products and services that we sell in foreign markets. while we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast accuracy. if our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. furthermore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not in another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. in addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis, typically up to the next twelve-month period. therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over a longer term. long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. a substantial portion of our international sales are priced in local currencies, although our cost structure is weighted towards the u.s. dollar. therefore, the strengthening of the u.s. dollar may adversely affect our competitiveness and financial results, as our foreign competitors may have cost structures based in other currencies and they may be more competitive when the u.s. dollar strengthens against those currencies. changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. furthermore, if one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. we are subject to certain risks related to the separation of our former imaging components business into varex imaging corporation. on january 28, 2017, we completed the separation of our former imaging components business through the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of varex imaging corporation ( varex ) to our stockholders. following the separation, varex is the sole source of supply of x-ray tubes, flat panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our on-board imager. we obtained an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the separation will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to both varian and its stockholders for united states federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the united states internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. an opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the internal revenue service (the irs ) or any court. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial results. from time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the united states, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims. legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years before the outcome is final. litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. if our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. in addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. 23 consolidation among our oncology systems customers could adversely affect our sales of oncology products. we have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our oncology systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. in addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. as customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. alternatively, order size may increase, as customers combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. if orders increase in size and require more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our oncology systems products could lengthen. both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable and could result in longer overall order to revenue cycles. in addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an accountable care organization ( aco ) environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. a reduction in pricing could negatively impact gross orders, future revenues and gross margins. our business will suffer if we are unable to provide the significant education and training required for the healthcare market to accept our products. in order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to (i) educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as imrt, igrt, vmat, srs, sbrt or proton therapy, (ii) overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, (iii) convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs, and (iv) help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. for example, the complex and dynamic nature of imrt and igrt requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with imrt and igrt. further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. we have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources to marketing and educational efforts to (a) create awareness of imrt, igrt, vmat radiotherapy, srs, sbrt and proton therapy, (b) encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and (c) promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products. our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain qualified personnel. our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. we compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers, as well as universities and research institutions. as we continue to grow our software revenues, we face intense competition for personnel from software and technology companies. because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. if we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. some of our executive officers have had long careers at our company. if these executives retire or leave, and we are unable to locate qualified or suitable replacements in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. we may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies, which could harm our business. we need to grow and evolve our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures, and to execute on our strategy of becoming the global leader in multi-disciplinary, integrated cancer care solutions. in some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. in addition, negotiating and completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. if we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses' tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and we record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. if we fail to achieve the anticipated growth or cash flows from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, acquisitions can result in potentially 24 dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. additionally, we have investments in privately held companies. these investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize or reach expectations. if these companies do not succeed, we may be forced to record impairment charges and could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. our efforts to integrate acquisitions may not be successful, and this may adversely affect our financial results. our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. success of an acquisition may depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired business. if such integration efforts are not successful, the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. our efforts to successfully integrate acquisitions may also result in additional expenses and divert significant amounts of management's time from other projects. our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of acquired businesses could also have an adverse impact on our overall business. it may cost us more to commercialize new products, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our research and development, sales and marketing or general and administrative expenses, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, there is no guarantee that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. if our acquisitions do not meet our initial expectations, we may record impairment charges. factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: our ability to retain key employees of the acquired businesses; the performance of the acquired businesses and their technologies, products or services; our ability to integrate the operations, financial and other systems of the acquired businesses; the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies such as increasing sales of the combined company's products and services, achieving expected cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products and services; any disruption in order fulfillment or loss of sales due to integration processes; increases in our risk of litigation, as a third-party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim; the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of the acquired businesses; our ability to retain or grow the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners; any decrease in customer and distributor loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the product lines and sales and marketing practices of the acquired businesses, including price increases; and our assumption of known contingent liabilities, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or unknown liabilities that come to light, in each case to the extent that the realization of such liabilities increases our expenses or adversely affects our business or financial position. we may face additional risks from the acquisition or development of new lines of business. from time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, as we did with proton therapy. there are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, 25 may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. losing distributors may harm our revenues in some territories. we have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. if these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales or the ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. we entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts certain activities, and failure to comply with this agreement may adversely affect our business, liquidity and financial position. we maintain a credit facility that contains affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. these provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. we have in the past used borrowings under our credit facility to fund the repurchase of vms shares and we may continue to do so in the future. furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. if this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. changes in the interpretation or application of generally accepted accounting principles may adversely affect our operating results. we prepare our financial statements to conform to gaap. these principles are subject to interpretation by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), the american institute of certified public accountants, the sec and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. a change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. in addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate each period. we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles than we have applied in past periods, including accounting principals regarding revenue recognition. the application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may also make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods, and the trading price of vms common stock could suffer or become more volatile. our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural or other disasters, power loss, strikes and other events beyond our control. we conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the state of california and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. we carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. a major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace the damaged facilities. these delays could be lengthy and costly. if any of our customers' facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal or may move to a competitor that can meet their desired delivery time frame. in addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. in addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. 26 we work in international locations with high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or contractors or cause us to incur substantial costs. we work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. some of our services are performed in high-risk locations or adjacent locations where the country or surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues, war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. despite the precautions that we take, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. product defects or misuse may result in material product liability or professional errors and omissions claims, litigation, investigation by regulatory authorities or product recalls that could harm our future financial results. our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists. our products operate within our customers' facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately delivers radiation to patients. human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. as a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. in addition, third-party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. we may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. in connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. if a product liability action were determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including punitive damages, and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation that could adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. in addition, if a product we design or manufacture was defective or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. the adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. a product correction or recall could consume management time, cause us to lose new orders, cause customers to cancel or delay installation of existing orders, or cause us to incur significant costs, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. we maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and do not maintain professional liability/errors and omissions insurance. our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. our insurance coverage may be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. if a material claim is successfully brought against us, we may have to pay substantial damages if they are not covered by insurance. additional risks relating to our software products we may face delays in the installation of our software products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we may face delays in the installation and acceptance of our software products, which may take more time from order to completion of installation and acceptance than our hardware products. though several of our software products are cloud-enabled, many of our current software product offerings are designed as on-premise products which must be installed on 27 customer systems on-site. delays in installation of our software products may arise as a result of a variety of factors, including (i) longer installation timetables resulting from challenges in coordinating on-site visits with the customer personnel, (ii) customer it systems not being ready to host the installation or (iii) the planning and customization required to deploy our software products in order to be compatible with a customer's unique, complex and/or dated health it systems. delays in installation of our software products could result in delays in our ability to recognize revenues from the sale of these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers could adversely affect our ability to release upgraded or new products. because there is no uniform practice among our customer base of updating to more recent versions of our software products and, for a variety of reasons, many of our customers do not regularly update to the newest version of our software products, at any point in time our installed base of customers may be running several different versions of our software products. the need to maintain and service multiple versions of the same software product across our installed base of customers can be cumbersome, time consuming and may require more personnel and other resources than would be the case if all of our customers utilized the same versions of our software products. moreover, the fact that not all of our customers run the same version of our software products can complicate our ability to efficiently release upgrades to, or new versions of, our software products across our installed base. similar complications to the release and installation of upgrades may be experienced with certain of our cloud-enabled products that have been developed using single tenant architecture, such as our 360 oncology product. in addition, in many instances, unless a customer has a certain version of our software products installed, their system will not be compatible with certain of our other software or hardware products. our inability to release new versions of software to customers or to sell customers other products because of incompatibility issues hurts our revenues and may make revenue projection less predictable. coding errors in our software and cloud offerings could adversely affect our results of operations. despite extensive testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our software and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released software or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our software or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. we may not be successful in transitioning our customer base to software solutions deployed via cloud and saas solutions. we are expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and saas solutions. cloud and saas solutions for use in the health care industry must comply with stringent regulations in many of the countries in which our customers are located, particularly in relation to the use and storage of patient health data and privacy, and the regulations vary on a country-by-country basis. our software products must be compliant with applicable regulation in the country in question before we can operationalize our offerings for customers located in those countries. ensuring the compliance of our cloud and saas solutions with applicable regulation may take longer than expected, occur more slowly in certain countries than in others, require that design changes be developed into our products, or require more financial resources than anticipated. in addition, even where our cloud and saas solutions are compliant with applicable regulation, customers may nevertheless refuse to adopt our products for numerous reasons, particularly in regards to the security of patient health data. moreover, unless and until our cloud and saas solutions find general acceptance among our customer base, we would likely need to maintain and continue to develop both our on-premise software product offerings and our cloud and saas solution platforms, which could prevent us from realizing the full benefits and efficiencies from transitioning to a cloud platform, result in higher costs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. an increase in the prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors could also unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise software offerings, and have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise software product and related service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, to the extent that demand for our cloud offerings increases in the future, we may experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our software licenses and our cloud offering arrangements. 28 furthermore, our cloud and saas software products may reside upon and be hosted by third party providers. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third party hosting services, could disrupt treatments utilizing our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers' stored information, including patient health information. since we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our saas solutions over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in our saas business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we recognize saas related revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements. as a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter relating to our saas products is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results for that quarter. any such decline, however, could negatively impact our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our saas solutions, and potential changes in our attrition rate, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. certain software that we use in our products is licensed from third parties and, for that reason, may not be available to us in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production or cause us to incur additional expenses. some of our software products contain software licensed from third parties. some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our products to remain competitive. the loss of these third-party licenses or the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of future products or the enhancement of existing products. we may also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain circumstances, thereby reducing the gross margin of our software sales. additional risks relating to our proton solutions business we participate in project financing for our proton solutions business, which has resulted in impairment charges and could result in payment defaults that adversely affect our financial results. we have participated along with others in providing financing for the construction and start-up operations of several proton therapy centers and may provide financing to other particle therapy customers in the future. as of september 28, 2018 , we had $164.8 million of loans outstanding, including accrued interest, available-for-sale securities, notes receivable and short-term senior secured debt related to proton solutions customers. see management discussion and analysis - overview - proton solutions and note 16, "proton solutions loans and investment" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the carrying value of our outstanding loans relating to the establishment of proton therapy centers. providing such financing has affected and could in the future adversely affect, our financial results, since a center may not be completed on time or within budget, or may not generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or facilitate a refinancing. if a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off loan amounts owing to us, and if we cannot recover loan amounts owing to us from the sale of any collateral or through other means, or in the event of a bankruptcy of the borrower, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion, of the loans, which would adversely affect our financial results. for example, in fiscal year 2017, the cptc, to which we had project financing outstanding, filed for bankruptcy and we recorded $51.4 million in impairment charges related to that financing. we also recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts of $37.8 million related to cptc and one other proton center in fiscal year 2017. similarly, in fiscal year 2018, we recorded impairment charges of $22.1 million on our subordinated loans to the maryland proton therapy center ( mptc ). please refer to management discussion and analysis - overview - varian proton solutions and note 16, "proton solutions loans and investment" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the impairment of the loan we extended. any impairment charges relating to our proton solutions business could have a material adverse impact our operating results and financial position. the financial results of our proton solutions business may be unpredictable and if our proton customers are unsuccessful, our financial results will be adversely affected. the success of our proton solutions business will depend upon the widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. this technology is expensive and has not been widely adopted. future developments may not be adopted as quickly as technological developments in more traditional areas of radiation therapy. 29 since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our oncology systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more resources. many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. this may cause fluctuations in the operating results of proton solutions that may make it difficult to predict our results and compare our results from period to period. the construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. economic downturns that result in a contraction in credit markets, have made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could adversely impact our operating results. proton therapy is expensive and changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates can affect growth or demand for our proton solutions products and services. after a proton therapy facility is established, there can be no assurance that it will have sufficient patient volume to be successful or profitable. if a proton treatment center cannot generate sufficient patient volume, it may lead to a need to refinance or renegotiate debt, seek concession on payments, or ultimately insolvency and bankruptcy, as in the case of cptc and the rinecker proton therapy center in germany, which has and may in the future require us to impair loans if we have extended loans to the proton treatment center, or to record an allowance for doubtful accounts against accounts receivables due from the proton treatment center. our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the future results of proton solutions' business. if we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. it is possible that proton solutions could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, market acceptance of proton therapy and reimbursement rates. these factors could adversely impact proton solutions' ability to meet its projected results, which could cause a portion or all of the goodwill of proton solutions to become impaired. as of september 28, 2018 , the goodwill of proton solutions was $51.5 million . based upon the most recent annual goodwill analysis that we performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018 , proton solutions' fair value was 48% in excess of its carrying value, and we believe each of the assumptions used to calculate proton solutions' fair value to be reasonable. however, proton solutions could be at risk for future goodwill impairment because adjustments to proton therapy orders, revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted-average cost of capital ("wacc") and/or our working capital used in the fair value calculation could lead to an impairment. if we determine that proton solutions' goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in such period. we compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. if we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, we may lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. because an order for a proton therapy system can be large and complex, and the sales cycle for proton therapy projects may take several years, an order in one fiscal period may cause our gross orders and revenues to vary significantly, making it difficult to predict and compare our results of operations from period to period. we expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of proton solutions' business for the foreseeable future. in instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which in turn could adversely impact our operating results and financial position. our proton solutions business may subject us to increased liability. proton solutions' business may subject us to increased liability. for example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project. since the cost of each proton therapy center project can often 30 exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project's value. insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. if we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. risks relating to the manufacture of our products any inability to obtain supplies of important components could restrict the manufacture of products, cause delays in delivery, or significantly increase our costs. we obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose rate brachytherapy, klystrons for linear accelerators and specialized integrated circuits and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets, patient positioning systems and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. if we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the fda or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of our products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our growing product lines. manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. disruptions or loss of any of our limited-sourced or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. in addition, following the separation of our former imaging components business into varex in january 2017, varex is the sole source supplier of tubes, panels and detector components used in certain of our products, such as our on-board imager. any disruption or reduction in the supply of these components could result in delays or reductions in our product deliveries, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. also, any unforecasted increases in the price of these components could adversely impact our profitability. a shortage or change in source of raw materials could restrict our ability to manufacture products, cause delays, or significantly increase our cost of goods. we rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for oncology systems and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for proton solutions. worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. if supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company's products of certain metals, known as conflict minerals, which are metals mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial results may suffer if we are not able to match our manufacturing capacity with demand for our products. many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. if we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact 31 our financial results and overall business. conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. we rely on third parties to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. disruptions at our logistics providers may adversely impact our business. third-party logistics providers store a significant portion of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and perform a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. if any of our logistics providers terminates its relationship with us, suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or if we have to change and qualify alternative logistics providers for our spare parts, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. risks relating to our regulatory environment we face significant costs in complying with laws and regulations, and failure or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or complying with laws and regulations could prevent product distribution, require product recalls, and result in significant penalties. our products and operations are subject to regulation by the fda, the state of california, the nuclear regulatory commission ( nrc ) and countries or regions in which we market our products. in addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and source, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. we must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance protocols into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. united states fda regulations . unless an exception applies, the fda requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval ( pma ) before it can market or sell those products in the united states. currently, we do not manufacture class iii medical devices which require pma. certain of our devices are subject to 510(k) clearance while others are exempt from 510(k) clearance. modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, but the fda can review any such decision. if the fda disagrees with a manufacturer's decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or pma approval for a change, the fda may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or pma approval. the fda also can require the manufacturer to cease united states marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pma approval is obtained. the fda clearance process is uncertain and we may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals in a timely manner or at all. the fda has issued draft guidance that, if finalized and implemented, will result in manufacturers needing to seek a significant number of new clearances for changes made to legally marketed devices. if we cannot establish that a proposed product is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we must seek pre-market approval through a pma application. under the pma process, the applicant submits extensive supporting data, including, in most cases, data from clinical studies, in the pma application to establish reasonable evidence of the safety and effectiveness of the product. this process typically takes at least one to two years from the date the pma is accepted for filing but can take significantly longer for the fda to review. as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities that require clinical trials, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the united states or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board. failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject us to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. we cannot assure you that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary. 32 in addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous fda and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. these include compliance with the medical device reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur, and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the fda field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the ffdca that may present a risk to health. if these reports are not filed on a timely basis, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. the fda and the federal trade commission also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. in general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the united states have similar regulations to which we are subject. our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the fda's quality system regulation ( qsr ), as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation-emitting products. the qsr covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. the qsr also requires maintenance of extensive records which demonstrate compliance with fda regulation, the manufacturer's own procedures, specifications and testing as well as distribution and post-market experience. compliance with the qsr is necessary to receive fda clearance or approval to market new products and for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the united states. the fda makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with the qsr. in connection with these inspections, the fda issues reports, known as form fda 483 reports, when it believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. if observations from the inspection are not addressed, and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the fda's satisfaction, the fda may issue an untitled letter, a warning letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. failure to respond timely to form fda 483 observations, a warning letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the united states and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product. united states nrc regulations. our products utilizing radioactive material are also subject to the nrc clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. the manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires a number of licenses and certifications. service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. in addition, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant requirements. disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. foreign regulations. in general, outside the united states, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the fda. in order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. these processes (including for example in the european union ( eu ), the european economic area ( eea ), switzerland, china, japan and canada) can be time consuming, burdensome and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines. within the eea, we must affix a ce mark, a marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the medical device directive. this conformity to the medical device directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a notified body. once the ce mark is affixed, the notified body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive. by affixing the ce mark to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the eea countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept ce mark standards. if we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable european laws and medical device directive, we would lose our right to affix the ce mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the eu/eea/switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the ce mark. 33 in april 2017, the medical device regulation replaced the medical device directive. the medical device regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants notified bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. we may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. we are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. these are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the united states. sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. in some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. we are also subject to international fraud and abuse laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. from time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. data privacy laws. the eu general data protection regulation ("gdpr") took effect in may 2018. the compliance and other burdens imposed by gdpr and similar privacy laws and regulations may be substantial since they are subject to differing interpretations and implementation among jurisdictions. the restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, require us to modify our data handling practices and impose additional costs and burdens. in addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, significant fines, and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. particularly within europe, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. other united states healthcare laws. as a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to patient privacy and data security, fraud and abuse and physician payment transparency. the laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop. non-compliance with anti-kickback , false claims and transparency laws and regulations can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs. these healthcare laws include: the medicare and medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar state laws, that prohibit payments or other remuneration intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients, or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as medicare and medicaid. these laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. they particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. federal and state false claims laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from medicare, medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the fda. state and federal transparency laws, including laws in massachusetts and vermont, and the federal physician payment sunshine act which require, among other things, the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. 34 any failure or delay in complying with one or more of the regulatory requirements we face could result in reduced sales, increased costs, and harm to our reputation and competitiveness, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. the affordable care act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices. the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act (collectively, the aca ) became effective in 2010. the aca could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. specifically, one of the components of the aca is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our oncology systems and proton solutions products, which took effect on january 1, 2013. in january 2018, president trump signed into law a spending package that included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax starting january 1, 2018 and ending december 31, 2019. this tax has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin when the moratorium expires. in addition, discussions relating to the aca have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and acos. acos and bundled payment programs were established by the aca to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. acos and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. however, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an aco environment and bundled reimbursement payments. these and other elements of the aca, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and medical procedure volumes. we believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy in the united states could be adversely impacted as customers' decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the aca and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and could result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenues from quarter-to-quarter. various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. we are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals, uncertainty related to implementation of aca provisions, and instability within insurance markets created under the aca, will have on our customer's purchasing decisions. however, an expansion in government's role in the united states healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. in addition, it is possible that changes in administration and policy, including the potential repeal of all or parts of the aca could result in additional proposals and/or changes to health care system legislation which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the full effect that a full or partial repeal of the aca would have on our business remains unclear at this time. more recently, president trump has signed an executive order and made statements that suggest he plans to seek repeal of all or portions of the aca, and has asked congress to replace the current legislation with new legislation. there is uncertainty with respect to the impact president trump's administration may have, if any, and any changes likely will take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the aca. however, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us. 35 changes to radiation oncology, reimbursements, and insurance deductibles and administration may affect demand for our products. sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. in general, employers and third-party payors in the united states have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. the imposition of higher deductibles tends to inhibit individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs were lower. third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers at a level that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited. once medicare makes a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by medicare annually. private third-party payors, although independent from medicare, sometimes use portions of medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. as a result, decisions by the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms") to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to medicare's reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts may extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. we have seen our customers' decision-making process complicated by the uncertainty surrounding medicare reimbursement rates and coverage for modalities and indications for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the united states. from time to time, cms and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement and coverage of procedures for cancer treatments. for example, cms and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. in addition, cms has announced their intention to unveil a mandatory medicare payment model for radiation oncology. the timing and details of such a payment model are uncertain. any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers' decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position and stock price. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 ( macra ) became effective on january 1, 2017, which made numerous changes to medicare, medicaid, and other healthcare related programs. these changes include new systems for establishing the annual updates to payment rates for physicians' services in medicare. as this new payment system continues to be implemented and revised annually, our business may be significantly affected by any changes in reimbursement policies and other initiatives aimed at or having the effect of reducing healthcare costs associated with medicare and other government healthcare programs. foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. any violation of federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices may result in substantial penalties. investigation into our business practices could cause adverse publicity and harm our business. anti-corruption laws and regulations. we are subject to the united states foreign corrupt practices act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act of 2010, and the law on the fundamentals of health protection in the russian federation. . any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. transparency international's 2016 corruption perceptions index found that approximately sixty-nine percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as china, india, russia and brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). we currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by transparency international. increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies. for example, in june 2015, one of our foreign subsidiaries was charged 36 by the department for investigation and penal action of lisbon with alleged improper activities relating to three tenders of medical equipment in portugal during the period of 2003 to 2009. we previously undertook an internal investigation of this matter and voluntarily disclosed the results of this investigation to the united states department of justice and the united states securities and exchange commission. after the company requested a judicial review available under portuguese criminal procedure processes as to whether or not such charges are proper under portuguese law, the matter was resolved and definitively dismissed on december 9, 2016, with no adverse findings or charges against the company. any such proceeding results in costs and management distraction, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. an adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. competition laws. we are subject to competition laws in the regions where we do business. regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. in addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. in addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. environmental laws impose compliance costs on our business and can result in liability. we are subject to environmental laws around the world. these laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. they can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. as a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. we may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. several countries, including some in the eu, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product's useful life, increasing our costs. the eu has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. these directives, along with another that requires substance information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain access to certain markets. all of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our intellectual property protecting our intellectual property can be costly and we may not be able to maintain licensed rights, which would harm our business. we file applications for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. we cannot assure you that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. we also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. an unfavorable outcome in such litigation or proceedings could harm us. in addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. these protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. in the event that our proprietary or confidential information is 37 misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. we also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. in some cases, products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. if we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products. there is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies' activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. in addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. determining whether a product infringes a third party's intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is uncertain. third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we may not be aware of the intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. from time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. we may not prevail in a dispute. we do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. if we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. risks relating to our common stock fluctuations in our operating results, including quarterly gross orders, revenues, margins, and cash flows may cause our stock price to be volatile, resulting in losses for our stockholders. we have experienced and expect to experience periodic fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues, margins and cash flows. drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third-party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. the availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. we have experienced this with our igrt products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. in addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. in addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as igrt and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. the timing of order placement, equipment installation and revenue recognition affect our quarterly results. once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the backlog amounts) and the timing of revenue include: delay in shipment due (e.g. an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed), cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; 38 the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; a change in a customer's financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. our operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: changes in our or our competitors' pricing or discount levels; imposition of tariffs on our products or components and services used in our products; impairment of loans, notes receivables, accounts receivable; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by different geographic regions; fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which presently carry lower gross margins than do our traditional radiotherapy products. if our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of vms common stock would likely decline. we report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. it is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by gaap, and are not within the scope of the quarterly review or annual audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. order cancellation or delays in delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods. in addition, our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. in that event, the trading price of vms common stock would almost certainly decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks we are exposed to three primary types of market risks: credit risk and counterparty risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. credit risk and counterparty risk we are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on the foreign currency forward contracts used in hedging activities. these counterparties are large international and regional financial institutions and to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligation to us under such contracts. 66 we are also exposed to credit loss in the event of default by counterparties of our financing receivables and our loans to proton solutions customers such as: as of september 28, 2018 , the term loan with cptc was $53.5 million . the $53.5 million is composed of four tranches: tranche a of $2.0 million, tranche b of $7.2 million, tranche c of $15.6 million, and tranche d of $28.7 million. all of the tranches accrue paid-in-kind interest at 7.5% per annum, except the tranche b which accrues paid-in-kind interest at 10% per annum. the maturity date of the term loan is december 2020. the term loan is secured by the assets of cptc. in addition, the lenders have committed to lend up to $15.0 million in revolving loans. our share of the funding commitment from the revolving loan is $7.2 million and as of september 28, 2018 , we have funded $3.7 million . the revolving loan accrues paid-in-kind interest at 10% per annum. the seniority of these loans is as follows: revolving loan, tranche a, tranche b, tranche c and tranche d. if cptc is in default, the interest on tranche a, c and d will increase to 9.5% and the interest on tranche b and the revolving loan will increase to 12.0%. we also have loans, including accrued interest, associated with the new york proton center, and proton international llc totaling $28.0 million and $1.7 million , respectively. in july 2017, we purchased the outstanding senior secured debt related to the rinecker proton therapy center ("rptc") in munich, germany for 21.5 million euros or $24.5 million. by purchasing the senior secured debt, we have a right to 89 million euros in claims against all of rptc's assets. in september 2017, the management of rptc filed for bankruptcy in germany. in january 2018, the final insolvency proceedings commenced, and we expect the insolvency proceedings to be finalized within the next twelve months. upon finalization of bankruptcy proceedings, we believe it is probable it will recover the outstanding senior secured debt balance and trade accounts receivable, net. see note 16, "proton solutions loans and investment" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information on loans to proton solutions customers. in addition, cash and cash equivalents held with financial institutions may exceed the federal deposit insurance corporation insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. we also may need to rely on our credit facilities as described below under interest rate risk. our access to our cash and cash equivalents or ability to borrow could be reduced if one or more financial institutions with which we have deposits or from which we borrow should fail or otherwise be adversely impacted by conditions in the financial or credit markets. conditions such as those we experienced as a result of the last economic downturn and accompanying contraction in the credit markets heighten these risks. concerns over economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables and could adversely impact our liquidity. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global entity, we are exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve. adverse foreign currency rate movements could have a material negative impact on our financial results. our primary exposures related to foreign currency denominated sales and purchases are in europe, asia, australia and canada. we have many transactions denominated in foreign currencies and address certain of those financial exposures through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. we sell products throughout the world, often in the currency of the customer's country, and may hedge certain of these larger foreign currency sale transactions when they are not transacted in the subsidiaries' functional currency or in u.s. dollars. the foreign currency transactions that fit our risk management policy criteria are hedged with foreign currency forward contracts. we may use other derivative instruments in the future. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts primarily to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes. the forward contracts range from one to thirteen months in maturity. we also hedge the balance sheet exposures from our various foreign subsidiaries and business units. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currency or the u.s. dollar. however, our foreign exchange forward contract gains or losses may impact our effective tax rate. 67 the notional values of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of september 28, 2018 were $398.3 million and $70.3 million , respectively. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts are not a measure of our exposure. the fair value of forward contracts generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account and approximating the current unrealized and realized gains or losses of the open contracts. a move in foreign currency exchange rates would change the fair value of the contracts, and the fair value of the underlying exposures hedged by the contracts would change in a similar offsetting manner. the notional values and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates of our sold and purchased foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at september 28, 2018 were as follows: (dollars in millions) notional value sold notional value purchased weighted average contract rate (foreign currency units per usd) australian dollar $ 14.4 $ 1.38 brazilian real 6.9 4.02 british pound 41.6 0.6 0.77 canadian dollar 0.4 1.30 chinese yuan 2.0 6.90 danish krone 4.8 6.41 euro 216.7 1.7 0.86 indian rupee 15.8 72.94 japanese yen 51.5 113.34 new zealand dollar 1.3 1.51 norwegian krona 2.7 8.14 polish zloty 6.7 3.68 singapore dollar 5.7 1.37 south african rand 5.6 14.21 swedish krona 9.7 8.88 swiss franc 62.8 0.98 taiwan dollar 11.6 30.45 thai baht 6.1 32.29 totals $ 398.3 $ 70.3 in addition to our foreign currency forward contracts mentioned above, in february 2018, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts and a foreign currency option contract to economically hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on the consideration to be paid for the anticipated sirtex acquisition. the foreign currency forward contracts allowed us to purchase a notional amount of a$793.0 million for $621.0 million on may 25, 2018. on may 25, 2018, we purchased the off-setting foreign currency forward contracts for a notional amount of $596.8 million. also, in february 2018, we paid a premium of $5.5 million for a foreign currency option that allowed us to purchase a notional amount of a$792.0 million for $641.5 million which expired on may 23, 2018. since we did not acquire sirtex, the foreign currency option was not exercised. the foreign currency forward contracts and option contract did not qualify for hedge accounting. as such, changes in the fair value were recognized in acquisition-related expenses on the consolidated statements of earnings. in fiscal year 2018, we recorded losses of $24.2 million on the foreign currency forward contracts and $5.5 million on the foreign currency option contract. interest rate risk our market risk exposure to changes in interest rates depends primarily on our investment portfolio and borrowings. our investment portfolio primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities as of september 28, 2018 . the principal amount of cash and cash equivalents in continuing operations at september 28, 2018 totaled $504.8 million with a weighted average interest rate of 0.94%. cash and cash equivalents at september 28, 2018 include $44.1 million of money market funds with a weighted average interest rate of 2.04%. 68 our available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value. at september 28, 2018 , our available-for-sale securities, which include accrued interest are as follows: (in millions, except for percentages) fair value interest rate mptc series b-1 bonds $ 25.1 7.5 % mptc series b-2 bonds 23.1 8.5 % gptc securities 7.9 8.0 % aptc securities 6.4 8.5 % borrowings under the 2018 revolving credit facility accrue interest at either (i) based on the eurodollar rate plus a margin of 1.000% to 1.375% based on a leverage ratio involving funded indebtedness and ebitda, or (ii) based upon a base rate of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) bofa's announced prime rate, or (c) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00%, whichever is highest, plus a margin of 0.000% to 0.375% based on the same leverage ratio, depending upon instructions from the company. borrowings under the 2018 revolving credit facility have a contract repayment date of twelve months, or less, and a final maturity of five years if based on the eurodollar rate and all overnight borrowings on the base rate would also have a final maturity of five years. we are affected by market risk exposure primarily through the effect of changes in interest rates on amounts payable under our 2018 revolving credit facility. at september 28, 2018 , we did not have any short-term borrowings under the under the 2018 revolving credit facility. see note 8, "borrowings" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion regarding the 2018 credit facility. in addition, the sumitomo credit facility allows vms kk to borrow up to a maximum amount of 3.0 billion japanese yen. borrowings under the sumitomo credit facility accrue interest based on the basic loan rate announced by the bank of japan plus a margin of 0.5% per annum. as of september 28, 2018 , we did not have an outstanding balance under the sumitomo credit facility. to date, we have not used derivative financial instruments to hedge the interest rate within our investment portfolio, borrowings, but may consider the use of derivative instruments in the future. in addition, although payments under certain of our operating leases for our facilities are tied to market indices, these operating leases do not expose us to material interest rate risk. 69